FILE:CI/CI-8K-20040310080109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9.  
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Company officials expect to attend and hold various meetings with certain analysts and investors on March 10 through March 12. In these meetings, Company officials expect to reiterate the Company's earnings estimate for full year 2004 as discussed on the Company's February 6, 2004 conference call. A transcript of the February 6call is available at http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/release/4Q03_Transcript.pdf.
th
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this report include the Company's statements regarding its earnings estimate for the full year 2004 as discussed in the February 6, 2004 conference call referenced above. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


