FILE:CI/CI-8K-20040430075954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On April 30, 2004, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the first quarter 2004. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2004 of $78 million, or $0.55 per share, compared with net income of $236 million, or $1.68 per share, for the same period last year. The decline reflects the impact of an accounting change in the Retirement segment.
PHILADELPHIA, April 30, 2004
1
CIGNA's income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $263 million, or $1.86 per share, for the first quarter of 2004 versus $205 million, or $1.46 per share, for the first quarter of 2003. First quarter results in CIGNA's Health Care segment on this basis totaled $185 million, up 53% from the same period last year and 21% sequentially.
2
"Our earnings for the first quarter reflect significant improvement in our health care business, driven by solid execution of our medical management and expense reduction initiatives," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "We are driving further improvement by accelerating investment in our health care product portfolio and service capabilities. With the sale of our retirement benefits business completed, we have significant financial flexibility and have heightened our focus on our health care and related benefits businesses."
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
Adjusted Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
Premiums and Fees (dollars in millions):
Medical Membership (in thousands):
Adjusted Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNA's web site (http://www.cigna.com) in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call on which management will review first quarter 2004 results and provide second quarter and full year 2004 outlook is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNA's website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates for the full year and second quarter of 2004 as well as the gain on the sale of the retirement benefits business. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CIGNA CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
* Income (loss) from continuing operations is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).


