FILE:CI/CI-8K-20041103080013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        On November 3, 2004, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the third quarter 2004. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $320 million, or $2.34 per share, for the third quarter of 2004 compared with net income of $195 million, or $1.39 per share, for the same period last year. The increase primarily reflects higher Health Care segment earnings and accelerated gain recognition on the sale of the retirement benefits business.
PHILADELPHIA, November 3, 2004
1
CIGNA's income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $242 million, or $1.77 per share, for the third quarter of 2004 versus $204 million, or $1.45 per share, for the third quarter of 2003. The increase primarily reflects higher earnings in the Health Care segment.
2
"Our Health Care segment earnings reflect the progress we continue to make in medical management, service, and underwriting. We are successfully lowering our customers' medical cost trends, while maintaining the industry's highest quality results," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "Solid execution of these fundamentals, which we have consistently demonstrated over the last several quarters, is building a strong foundation to improve membership results."
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
3
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNA's web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call on which management will review third quarter 2004 results and provide full year 2004 and 2005 outlook is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNA's website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates for the full years of 2004 and 2005. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


