FILE:CI/CI-8K-20040206075956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On February 6, 2004, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the fourth quarter and full year 2003. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2003 of $290 million, or $2.06 per share, compared with net income of $47 million, or $0.33 per share, for the same period last year.
PHILADELPHIA, February 6, 2004
1
For full year 2003, consolidated net income was $668 million, or $4.75 per share, compared with a net loss of $398 million, or $2.83 per share, in 2002.
Income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $233 million, or $1.65 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2003 versus $178 million, or $1.27 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2002.
2
For the full year 2003, income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $800 million, or $5.69 per share, versus $935 million, or $6.65 per share, for the full year 2002.
"Strong earnings for the quarter reflect higher results in our health care business  driven by improved fundamentals and progress we have made in implementing our health care performance improvement initiatives  as well as continued good performance in our disability and life, international, and retirement businesses," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "We are keenly focused on further strengthening health care results and continuing to develop our other businesses, and we are optimistic about the prospects for continued improvement in results in 2004 and beyond."
"CIGNA's new strategic focus is to be a leading provider of health care and related benefits. Our strategy builds on a foundation of strong capabilities in medical, pharmacy, behavioral health, clinical information management, dental and vision benefits, case and disease management, and disability, life and accident products," Hanway said.
"Our health care and related benefits businesses are headed by experienced leaders who are committed to meeting our customers' needs for cost-effective solutions to their benefit challenges, continuous productivity improvement, and benefit plans that help them control costs while enhancing their ability to attract and retain talent.
"The pending sale of CIGNA's retirement business is an important step in the strategic repositioning of our company. In recognition of this new focus, we are realigning our organization and consolidating support functions to increase our efficiency and customer responsiveness.
"Through a combination of job eliminations and productivity-driven attrition, we plan to eliminate approximately 3,000 positions and reduce operating expenses in 2004 by about $300 million. We expect to record a related charge in the first quarter not to exceed $75 million, after-tax, and we expect that the total of all restructuring related charges in 2004 will be less than $100 million, after-tax. The expense reductions will contribute to 2004 Health Care adjusted segment earnings, excluding these charges, in the range of $450 million to $500 million, after-tax, consistent with our previous outlook.
"In 2003 we materially strengthened our capital position, which will be further enhanced by the cash proceeds from the retirement business sale and by earnings from our ongoing businesses. We are well-positioned to support growth opportunities in our core businesses," Hanway said.
In conjunction with the company's new strategic focus, CIGNA's Board of Directors has approved a change in the company's dividend policy to position CIGNA more in line with other dividend-paying managed care companies. The change will take effect for dividends declared after the closing of the retirement transaction, which CIGNA continues to expect to close around the end of the first quarter. At that time, the Board intends to establish a quarterly dividend of $0.025 per share of common stock. The Board expects the dividend that will be declared in February and paid in April to remain at the current quarterly level of $0.33 per share.
"Following implementation of the new dividend policy, we expect to use share repurchase as the primary means for distributing excess capital to shareholders," said Hanway. "The amount and pace of future repurchase activity will depend on market conditions and other considerations, including continued progress in improving the financial performance of our health care business."
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment gains and special items to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
        
Adjusted Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
        
Premiums and Premium Equivalents (dollars in millions):
5
        
Medical Membership in continuing operations on a same store basis (in thousands):
6
With respect to the estimate of 2004 Health Care adjusted segment earnings, information is not available for management to reasonably estimate full year 2004 realized investment results or special items. Special items for the Health Care segment would include restructuring related charges.
Quarterly earnings and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNA's web site (http://www.cigna.com) in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call on which management will review fourth quarter 2003 results and provide first quarter and full year 2004 outlook is available in the Events section of CIGNA's Investor Relations website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html.
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include the company's earnings estimate for the Health Care segment for the full year 2004 and information regarding expected restructuring related charges. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) Includes pre-tax losses of $224 million for the fourth quarter of 2003 ($550 million for the year ended December 31, 2003) and pre-tax losses of $213 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 (pre-tax gains of $87 million for the year ended December 31, 2002) from futures and forward contracts entered into as part of a program to manage equity market risks in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations. CIGNA recorded corresponding offsets in benefits, losses and settlement expenses to adjust liabilities for certain specialty life reinsurance contracts. Also includes trading portfolio losses ($126 million for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2003) recognized on securities supporting experience-rated pension policyholder contracts. Such losses generally accrue to policyholders and are offset by amounts included in benefits, losses, and settlement expenses.
(2) See for a reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to income (loss) from continuing operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). CIGNA's net income (loss) is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
Exhibit 2
* Income (loss) from continuing operations is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Net income is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
** Because of the overall loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 (including the special items above), the number of shares used to compute EPS for those periods does not reflect the dilution caused by common stock equivalents (i.e., stock options and restricted stock grants). Such common stock equivalents (approximately 1.4 million shares for the year ended 2002) are excluded from the computation since their effect would decrease CIGNA's reported loss per share. If they were included in the computation of per share amounts, income from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items would have been $6.59 per share for the year ended December 31, 2002.


