FILE:CI/CI-8K-20040401090915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5.  
Other Events.
        On April 1, 2004, CIGNA Corporation ("CIGNA") completed the sale of its retirement benefits business to Prudential Financial, Inc. for $2.1 billion in cash. A copy of the news release announcing the sale is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
        CIGNA will file a Form 8-K providing additional information regarding this sale, including pro forma financial information, within 15 days.
Item 7.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits below.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

CIGNA Corporation (NYSE:CI) announced today that it has completed the sale of its retirement benefits business to Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) for $2.1 billion in cash.
PHILADELPHIA, April 1, 2004 
"With the completion of this transaction, we can devote all of CIGNA's resources and attention to our health care and related benefits businesses," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA chairman and chief executive officer. "We're fully engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class health and related benefit solutions that enable employers to keep their benefits costs under control and help their employees stay healthy and productive."
CIGNA expects to use the proceeds from the sale to support the growth of its health care and related benefits businesses, maintain or improve subsidiary and parent company ratings, ensure financial flexibility of the parent company, and return capital to investors by reducing corporate debt and repurchasing outstanding stock. The company plans to reinitiate its share repurchase program shortly.
The sale of the retirement business further strengthens CIGNA's overall financial position and flexibility. As previously announced, in conjunction with this transaction the company expects certain rating agencies to reduce by one notch the financial strength rating of its primary operating subsidiary, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company. Connecticut General continues to be well capitalized with ratings that are appropriate to support its ongoing health care and related benefits businesses.
CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest publicly owned providers of health care, disability, life and accident insurance benefits. Web site: .
http://www.cigna.com
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include forward-looking information regarding, among other things, the use of proceeds from CIGNA's sale of its retirement business and information regarding expected rating agency actions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


