FILE:CI/CI-8K-20050207164053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17
CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17
CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01  
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
 
On February 1, 2005, Donna F. Zarcone and William D. Zollars were appointed as non-employee directors to the Board of Directors of CIGNA. A copy of a summary sheet outlining the terms of non-employee director compensation is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
.
On February 1, 2005, CIGNA issued a news release announcing the appointment of Donna F. Zarcone and William D. Zollars to its Board of Directors and the departure of Charles R. Shoemate and Joseph Neubauer from the Board of Directors effective the date of the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 27, 2005. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Board retainer
. Each director receives $50,000 annually for board membership. At least $25,000 of the annual board retainer must be paid in CIGNA common stock equivalents, which provide deferred cash compensation credited at rates of return that track the economic performance of CIGNA common stock.
Committee member retainer
. Each director receives $10,000 annually for each committee membership. Committee chairs and members of the Executive Committee do not receive this retainer.
Committee chair retainer
. Each committee chair other than the chair of the Executive Committee receives $15,000 annually.
In addition to the $25,000 annual board retainer paid in CIGNA common stock equivalents, directors can elect to receive some (or all) of their cash compensation in:
Annual credit
. Each director is entitled to an annual credit of $61,000 to a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account under the Deferred Compensation Plan for directors of CIGNA Corporation. This amount is credited in restricted common stock equivalents and is payable in cash when a director dies or retires from the Board.
Hypothetical dividends
. Hypothetical dividends are paid on common stock equivalents and restricted common stock equivalents and can be reinvested in common stock equivalents or invested in the hypothetical investments available for deferred cash compensation.
Restricted stock and stock equivalents
. Any non-employee director who was not an officer or employee of CIGNA or any of its subsidiaries in the preceding 10 years is entitled to a one-time grant of 4,500 shares of restricted common stock or for directors beginning after October 1, 2004, 4,500 restricted common stock equivalents under the Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of CIGNA Corporation. A director who receives shares or stock equivalents under this plan, in the case of restricted stock can collect dividends and vote the shares, but cannot transfer them until the later of:
Shares or stock equivalents are forfeited if a directors service ends for any other reason.
Travel accident coverage
. Each director is provided $450,000 of coverage.
Financial planning
. Each director can use the financial planning services available to CIGNA executive officers.
Insurance
. Each director may purchase (on an after-tax basis) or participate in life insurance, medical/dental care programs, property/casualty personal lines insurance programs and matching gift programs available to CIGNA employees.

[CIGNA LOGO] Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
Philadelphia, February 1, 2005  CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today announced the appointment of Donna F. Zarcone, effective February 11, and William D. Zollars, effective February 25, to the companys board of directors for terms expiring in April 2007 and April 2005, respectively.  The company also announced that Charles R. Shoemate will be retiring from the board at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders after 13 years of service and that Joseph Neubauer, who has served on the board for six years, will not stand for re-election at that meeting.
Ms. Zarcone joined Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., the financial subsidiary of Harley-Davidson, Inc., in 1994 and has served as president and chief operating officer of the company since 1998. Harley-Davidson Financial Services provides wholesale and retail financing, insurance and credit card programs to Harley-Davidson dealers and riders in the United States, Canada, and select European countries. From 1987 to 1994, Zarcone held senior financial positions, including executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer at Chrysler Systems Leasing, Inc., a subsidiary of Chrysler Financial Corporation. She is a 1979 graduate of Illinois State University with a degree in accounting, and also is a Certified Public Accountant. She received her M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business in 1987.
Mr. Zollars has served since 1999 as chairman, president and chief executive officer of Yellow Roadway Corporation, a holding company whose subsidiaries provide regional, national and international transportation and related services. Prior to joining Yellow Roadway in 1996, he was senior vice president of marketing and sales at a subsidiary of Ryder System, Inc., and, from 1970 to 1994, held several management positions at Eastman Kodak Company. He is a 1969 graduate in economics of the University of Minnesota.
CIGNAs board of directors is pleased to be joined by these two outstanding and seasoned business executives, said H. Edward Hanway, chairman and chief executive officer of CIGNA Corporation. Ms. Zarcones financial and operational, and Mr. Zollars strategic and marketing, experience and leadership will be invaluable to our company as we continue to deliver consistent performance and build on our strong foundation to grow our businesses. At the same time, I want to thank Dick Shoemate and Joe Neubauer for many outstanding years of service to the corporation. Each has provided the corporation with excellent advice and wise counsel, and our shareholders have benefited greatly from their presence on our Board, Mr. Hanway said.
In addition, CIGNA's board of directors set February 28, 2005, as the record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the companys annual meeting of shareholders. The meeting will be held at The Gregg Conference Center at the American College of Insurance, Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 3:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 27, 2005.
The board also determined that four directors will be elected and nominated Peter N. Larson, Carol Cox Wait and William D. Zollars for re-election to three-year terms that expire in 2008 and Marilyn Ware for re-election to a one
-year term that will expire in 2006. The company said that Ms. Ware has advised the company that it is her intention not to stand for re-election at the 2006 Annual Meeting after 12 years on the board.
 
 
As a Business of Caring, CIGNA provides employers with benefits programs, expertise and services that improve the health, well-being and productivity of their employees. Serving millions of customers, clients and members in the United States and around the globe, CIGNA's operating subsidiaries offer a full portfolio of medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits; group life, accident and disability insurance, and health care coverages for expatriate employees. For more information: http://www.cigna.com.


