FILE:CI/CI-8K-20051213162040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
Director Compensation Program
On December 8, 2005, CIGNA's Board of Directors approved a new Director Compensation Program, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The Director Compensation Program modifies among other features, the structure and amount of the Board and Committee retainers. The Board of Directors also approved an Amended and Restated Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of CIGNA Corporation, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The amendments to the Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan modify the vesting period of grants of restricted common stock and restricted common stock equivalents. Restricted shares vest on the later of (1) six months after the date of grant; or (2) the earlier of nine years of service on the Board or termination of service for certain reasons such as retirement, death, disability, or change of control. Restricted share equivalents vest on the later of (1) six months after the date of grant; or (2) the earliest of nine years of service on the Board, attainment of age 65, change of control, or death or disability of the director. Payout of vested restricted share equivalents occurs at termination of service. No grants will be made under the Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan on or after January 17, 2006 except to eligible directors whose service as a member of the Board started before January 1, 2006.
The new Director Compensation Program takes effect January 1, 2006. The Amended and Restated Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan is effective January 17, 2006.
Agreement and Release with Gregory H. Wolf
On December 12, 2005, Life Insurance Company of North America (LINA), a subsidiary of CIGNA Corporation, entered into an Agreement and Release with Gregory H. Wolf, the former President of CIGNA Group Insurance, with respect to the termination of his employment effective February 28, 2006. The agreement provides, among other things, that, in exchange for certain promises, covenants and waivers, including those relating to confidentiality, release, non-competition and non-solicitation, LINA will pay Mr. Wolf: (1) his salary until his termination date; (2) a lump sum payment of 22/26 of his annual salary rate on or before March 15, 2006; (3) an amount equal to his annual bonus target multiplied by 100% or the Group Insurance division rating, if higher; (4) $10,000 on or before March 15, 2006 to cover CIGNA's Executive Financial Services Program through December 31, 2006 and for reasonable tax preparation fees for income through December 31, 2006; and (5) an amount equal to the value of 100% of the shares of restricted stock and 33% of the deferred stock units that he forfeits on his termination date based upon an average closing price of a share of CIGNA Corporation common stock on the 30 trading days ending on his termination date. Also, LINA will pay Mr. Wolf a lump sum cash payment, on or before March 15, 2006, with respect to previously awarded Strategic Performance Units (SPU), based on the prorated number of SPUs and SPU value, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Upon Mr. Wolfs termination, all of his unexercised options will expire. Until December 31, 2006, Mr. Wolf will be eligible to participate in group health care and life insurance coverage on the same basis as active employees. Also, Mr. Wolf will receive executive outplacement services, including office space and secretarial staff, until February 28, 2007. Mr. Wolf has seven days from his execution of the Agreement and Release to revoke the agreement.
The summary of the Agreement and Release is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1.01.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
Board and Committee Retainers
Board retainer.
Each Director receives $225,000 annually for Board membership. One third ($75,000) of the retainer is payable in cash and two-thirds ($150,000) of the retainer is payable in deferred stock units.
Each deferred stock unit represents the value of one share of CIGNA Corporation common stock and constitutes the right to a future cash payment equal to (a) the fair market value of one share at payout and (b) the accumulated amount of dividends paid on each share of CIGNA common stock from the date of award of the deferred stock units until the date of payment (hypothetical dividends).
 
 
Committee member retainer.
Each Director receives $10,000 annually for each committee membership. Committee chairs and members of the Executive Committee do not receive this retainer.
 
Committee chair retainer.
Each committee chair other than the chair of the Executive Committee receives $15,000 annually.
Payment of Retainers.
 
Deferred compensation elections.
Directors may elect to defer some or all of their compensation under the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of CIGNA Corporation.
 
Other Director Benefits
 
Basic Life Insurance coverage.
Each Director is provided coverage in the amount of the annual board retainer.
Travel accident coverage.
Each Director is provided coverage in the amount of three times the annual board retainer.
 
Financial planning.
Directors may use the financial planning services available to CIGNA executives.
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance.
Directors may purchase or participate, on an after-tax basis, in life insurance, medical/dental care programs, long-term care, property/casualty personal lines and various other insurance programs available to CIGNA employees.
Matching Gifts.
Directors may participate in the matching charitable gift program available to CIGNA employees, under which up to $5,000 annually may be matched.
Post-Termination Benefits.
Directors serving on January 1, 2006 are eligible, upon termination after nine years of Board service, to continue to participate, in medical/dental care programs on an after-tax basis for two years and financial planning services (of up to $5,000) for one year following separation of service from the Board. These directors are also provided $10,000 basic life insurance coverage for life. Previously, Directors who retired generally were eligible to use financial planning services for five years, to participate for life in medical/dental care programs on an after-tax basis and were provided $10,000 basic life insurance coverage for life. All directors may, at their own expense and if otherwise eligible, also continue life insurance, long-term care insurance and property/casualty personal lines insurance pursuant to the terms of the applicable policies.
Share Ownership Guidelines
 
Each Director is required to hold CIGNA common stock or CIGNA common stock units with a value equal to or greater than $250,000. Each Director has three years
 
from the time he or she joins the Board to accumulate the required shares.

Exhibit 10.2
1.
Purpose.
The Restricted Stock
/
Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of CIGNA Corporation (the "Plan") is intended to provide directors of CIGNA Corporation (the "Company") with a proprietary interest in the Company's success and progress by granting them shares of the Company's Common Stock or Common Stock Equivalents ("Common Stock" or Stock Equivalents) which are restricted in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below ("Restricted Shares"
 
or Restricted Share Equivalents). The Plan is intended to increase the alignment of personal economic interest between directors and shareholders generally and to strengthen the Company's ability to continue attracting and retaining highly qualified directors. No grants will be made under the Plan on or after January 17, 2006 except to Eligible Directors (as defined below) whose service as a member of the Companys Board of Directors (the "Board") started before January 1, 2006.
2.
Administration.
The Plan is to be administered by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board or any successor committee with responsibility for compensation of directors (the "Committee").
3.
Eligibility and Grants.
All Eligible Directors shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. Eligible Directors means all persons who (a) were members of the Board on September 30, 1989 (the Effective Date), or were elected to the Board after the Effective Date and before January 1, 2006 and (b) have served as directors for at least six months and, for the ten year period ending on the date such service began, were not officers or employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each director who was an Eligible Director on the Effective Date was granted 4,500 Restricted Shares, effective as of the Effective Date. Each director who became an Eligible Director after the Effective Date but before October 1, 2004
 
was granted 4,500 Restricted Shares, effective as of the date such director became an Eligible Director. Each director who becomes an Eligible Director after October 1, 2004 but before January 17, 2006 shall be granted 4,500 Restricted Share Equivalents, effective as of the date such director becomes an Eligible Director.
4.
Terms and Conditions of Restricted Shares.
 
 
(a)
General.
Subject to the provisions of Section 4(c) below, the restrictions set forth in Section 4(b) shall apply to each grant of Restricted Shares
 
for a period (the "Restricted Period") from the date of grant until the later of the expiration of the six-month period immediately following the date of grant or the date on which the shares vest as provided in Section 4(c).
(b)
Restrictions on Restricted Shares.
A stock certificate representing the number of Restricted Shares granted shall be registered in each Eligible Director's name but shall be held in custody by the Company for the Eligible Director's account. The Eligible Director shall have all rights and privileges of a shareholder as to such Restricted Shares, including the right to receive dividends and the right to vote such Restricted Shares, except that the following restrictions shall apply: (i) the Eligible Director shall not be entitled to delivery of the certificate until the expiration of the Restricted Period, (ii) none of the Restricted Shares may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during the Restricted Period, and (iii) except as provided in Section 4(c), all of the Restricted Shares shall be forfeited and all rights of the Eligible Director to such Restricted Shares shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company upon the Eligible Director's ceasing to be a director of the Company prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period.
(c)
Vesting of Restricted Shares
(i) The Restricted Shares granted to an Eligible Director shall vest on: (1) January 17, 2006, for an Eligible Director who as of that date has remained in continuous service as a director of the Company for at least nine years; (2) the ninth anniversary of the date an Eligible Director began service as a director of the Company if the Eligible Director has remained in continuous service as a director of the Company for that period and the Eligible Director had continuously served for fewer than nine years as of January 17, 2006; or (3) if earlier than the dates set forth in (1) or (2), upon termination of service as a director of the Company if the Eligible Director ceases to be a director by reason of Disability, death, Retirement or Change of Control. If an Eligible Director ceases to be a director of the Company for any other reason not listed in (3) above and the Restricted Shares have not otherwise vested pursuant to (1) or (2) above, the Eligible Director shall immediately forfeit all Restricted Shares except to the extent that a majority of the Board other than the Eligible Director approves the vesting of such Restricted Shares. Upon vesting, except as provided in Section 6, all restrictions applicable to such Restricted Shares
 
shall lapse. Such shares shall be delivered to the Eligible Director, or the Eligible Director's beneficiary or estate, in accordance with Section 4(d).
(ii)
Disability.
For purposes of this Plan, "Disability" shall mean a permanent and total disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
 
2
(iii)
Retirement.
For purposes of this Section 4(c), "Retirement" shall mean ceasing to be a director of the Company (i) on or after age 72, or (ii) on or after age 65 with the consent of a majority of the members of the Board other than the Eligible Director.
(iv)
Change of Control.
For purposes of this Plan, "Change of Control" shall mean:
(A) a corporation, person or group acting in concert as described in Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), holds or acquires beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act of a number of preferred or common shares of the Company having voting power which is either (i) more than 50% of the voting power of the shares which voted in the election of directors of the Company at the shareholders' meeting immediately preceding such determination, or (ii) more than 25% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding common shares; or
(B) as a result of a merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party, either (i) the Company is not the surviving corporation or (ii) Directors of the Company immediately prior to the merger or consolidation constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation; or
(C) a change occurs in the composition of the Board at any time during any consecutive 24-month period such that the "Continuity Directors" cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board. For purposes of the preceding sentence "Continuity Directors" shall mean those members of the Board who either: (i) were directors at the beginning of such consecutive 24-month period; or (ii) were elected by, or on nomination or recommendation of, at least a majority (consisting of at least nine directors) of the Board.
(d)
Delivery of Shares.
At the end of the Restricted Period, the number of Restricted Shares
 
which have vested shall be delivered free of all such restrictions to the Eligible Director or the Eligible Director's beneficiary or estate, as the case may be.
 
The shares shall be certificated and delivered or delivered via book entry deposit into the Eligible Directors account at the Corporations stock transfer agent.
5.
Terms and Conditions of Restricted Share Equivalents
.
(a)
General.
An account shall be established on the books and records of the Company to record the number of Restricted Share Equivalents granted by the Company to the Eligible Director. Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c) below, the restrictions set forth in Section 5(b) shall apply to each grant of Restricted Share Equivalents.
 
 
 
3
(b)
Restrictions on Restricted Share Equivalents.
The following restrictions shall apply to Restricted Share Equivalents: (1) the Eligible Director shall not be entitled to the payment of the Restricted Share Equivalents until the Payment Date provided in Section 5(d); (2) none of the Restricted Share Equivalents may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of prior to the Payment Date; and (3) all of the Restricted Share Equivalents shall be forfeited and all rights of the Eligible Director to such Restricted Share Equivalents shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company upon the Eligible Director ceasing to be a director of the Company prior to the date the Restricted Share Equivalents vest.
(c)
Vesting of Restricted Share Equivalents.
The Restricted Share Equivalents granted to an Eligible Director shall vest on the later of (1) six months after the date of grant; or (2) the earliest of (A) the Eligible Director's ninth anniversary of continuous service as a director of the Company, (B) the Eligible Director's attainment of age 65, (C) the Eligible Director's Disability, (D) the Eligible Director's death, or (E) the occurrence of a Change of Control. If an Eligible Director ceases to be a director of the Company and the Restricted Share Equivalents have not otherwise vested pursuant to this Section 5(c), the Eligible Director shall immediately forfeit all Restricted Share Equivalents.
 
(d)
Payment of Vested Restricted Share Equivalents
. The cash value of the vested Restricted Share Equivalents shall be determined as of an Eligible Director's last business day of service as a director of the Company (the "Valuation Date") by using the closing price on the Valuation Date as reported on the Composite tape or successor means of publishing stock price. The Valuation Date cash value
 
shall be paid to the Eligible Director, or the Eligible Director's beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, within 45 days of the Eligible Director's separation from service, but no later than the end of the calendar year in which the Eligible Director separates from service or, if later, the fifteenth day of the third month following the Eligible Director's separation from service (the "Payment Date").
(e)
Hypothetical Dividends.
Hypothetical dividends (amounts equal to cash dividends paid on shares of Common Stock) shall be paid on the Restricted Share Equivalents no later than the end of the calendar year in which cash dividends on shares of Common Stock are paid or, if later, the fifteenth day of the third month following the date cash dividends on shares of Common Stock are paid.
6.
Regulatory Compliance.
No Common Stock
 
granted pursuant to this Plan shall be sold or distributed by an Eligible Director or an Eligible Director's beneficiary or estate until all appropriate listing,
 
 
4
 
registration and qualification requirements and consents and approvals have been satisfied or obtained, free of any condition unacceptable to the Board of Directors.
7.
Adjustment in Event of Changes in Capitalization.
In the event of a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, the Committee may make such equitable adjustments, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights, as it may deem appropriate in the number and class of shares authorized to be granted as Restricted Shares
 
or in the number of Restricted Share Equivalents. Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Equivalents
 
issued as a consequence of any such change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company shall be issued subject to the same restrictions and provisions applicable to the Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Equivalents
 
with respect to which they are issued.
8.
Termination or Amendment of the Plan.
The Board may at any time terminate the Plan and may from time to time alter or amend the Plan or any part hereof (including any amendment deemed necessary to ensure that the Company may comply with any regulatory requirement referred to in Section 6) without shareholder approval, unless otherwise required by law or by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or New York Stock Exchange. No termination or amendment of the Plan may, without the consent of an Eligible Director, impair the rights of such director with respect to Restricted Shares or Restricted Share
 
Equivalents
 
granted under the Plan.
 
9.
Miscellaneous.
(a) Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to create any obligation on the part of the Board to nominate any director for reelection by the Company's shareholders.
(b) The Company shall have the right to require, prior to the issuance or delivery of any Restricted Shares, payment by an Eligible Director of any taxes required by law with respect to the issuance or delivery of such shares, or the lapse of restrictions thereon, or to withhold any taxes as required by law with respect to the cash value of the Restricted Share Equivalents.
(c) The shares of Common Stock granted as Restricted Shares under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued shares or shares which have been or may be reacquired by the Company, as determined from time to time by the Board.
10.
Effective Dates.
The Plan became effective as of September 30, 1989. The effective date of this Restatement of the Restricted Stock/Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of CIGNA Corporation is January 17, 2006.

Exhibit 10.3
 
This Agreement and Release (Agreement) is dated as of November 16, 2005 (Today), and is between Gregory H. Wolf, 207 Ladbroke Road, Bryn Mawr, PA 19010 (you), and Life Insurance Company of North America, a Pennsylvania corporation (the Company).
You and the Company intend to be legally bound by the Agreement, and are entering into it in reliance on the promises made to each other in the Agreement. Under the Agreement, your employment will end, and you and the Company agree to settle all issues concerning your employment and termination of employment. The Company will pay you certain benefits described in this agreement and release certain claims against you. In turn, you are releasing certain legal claims against the Company.
1.
 
Your Termination Date.
Your employment with the Company will end by mutual consent on February 28, 2006 (the Termination Date). Your formal job responsibilities will end Today, however you agree to be available for transition until your Termination Date.
2.
 
Your Promises to the Company.
 
 
 
2
In addition, from and after your Termination Date, you agree not to sell more than 15,000 shares of CIGNA Corporation common stock during any one day.
3
4
5
 
 
6
7
5.
 
No Mitigation, No Offset
.
 
You shall have no duty to seek other employment and there shall be no offset against amounts due under this Agreement on account of any remuneration you may receive attributable to any subsequent employment or self-employment.
8
6.
 
Anti-disparagement
.
 
You agree not to knowingly make any statement to a customer of CIGNA or any public statement, whether oral or written, that would disparage CIGNA or any of its senior officers or directors. The Company agrees that it (and its affiliates) shall not, and it shall cause each CIGNA senior officer or director not to, knowingly make any public statement, whether oral or written, that disparages you. It shall not, however, be a violation of this paragraph 6 for any person: (a) to make truthful statements (i) when required to do so by a court of law, by any governmental agency having supervisory authority over CIGNA's business or by any administrative or legislative body (including a committee thereof) with actual or apparent jurisdiction to order such person to divulge, disclose or make accessible such information or (ii) to the extent necessary with respect to any litigation, arbitration or mediation involving this Agreement, including but not limited to, enforcement of this Agreement; or (b) from responding publicly to incorrect or disparaging public statements to the extent reasonably necessary to correct or refute such public statement.
In response to any inquiries about you from any person or entity that you identify to the Company as a prospective employer, the Company will provide a letter to such prospective employer from the Companys Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice President of Human Resources & Services in the form of Attachment A to this Agreement. Either of them are also willing to discuss your reference with said prospective employer.
 
7.
 
No Admission of Wrongdoing.
 
Just because the Company is entering into this Agreement and paying you money, the Company is not admitting that it (or any Released Person) has done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability. Similarly, by entering into this Agreement, you are not admitting that you have done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.
8.
 
Applicable Law.
 
This Agreement is being made in Pennsylvania. It will be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of Pennsylvania (without reference to the principles of conflicts of law), but your eligibility for, or the amount of any, employee benefits shall be subject to the terms of the benefit plans and the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).
9.
 
Arbitration.
 
Without in any way affecting the releases in paragraph 4, any and all disagreements, disputes or claims listed below will be resolved exclusively by arbitration in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. Arbitration will be conducted in
 
9
accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association, as modified by Company. Copies of the Arbitration Policy and Rules and Procedures have been provided to you. A legal judgment based upon the Arbitrators award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the matter. Each party shall be liable for its own costs and expenses (including attorneys fees). You and the Company agree to arbitrate anything:
10.
 
Final and Entire Agreement.
 
This Agreement is intended to be the complete, entire and final agreement between you and the Company. It fully replaces all earlier agreements or understandings; however, it does not replace the terms of any employee benefit plan or terms included in any stock option or restricted stock grant; provided that the covenants and provisions in paragraphs 2, 6 and 9 above supercede in their entirety any similar provisions in any employee benefit plan. Neither you nor the Company has relied upon any other statement, agreement or contract, written or oral, in deciding to enter into this Agreement. Any amendment to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by both you and the Company. Any waiver by any person of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective only if in writing, specifically referring to the provision being waived and signed by the person against whom enforcement of the waiver is being sought. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective as to any other provision of this Agreement except to the extent specifically provided in an effective written waiver. If any provision or portion this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable in a legal forum with competent jurisdiction to so determine, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law and the invalid or unenforceable provisions or portions shall be deemed to be reformed so as to give maximum legal effect to the agreements of the parties contained herein. The parties agree to amend the Agreement to change the timing of any payments under the Agreement as needed to avoid the imposition on you of any penalty tax under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
11.
 
 
Your Understanding.
 
By signing this Agreement, you admit and agree that:
10
12.
 
Revoking the Agreement.
 
You have seven calendar days from the date you sign this Agreement to revoke and cancel it. To do that, a clear, written cancellation letter, signed by you, must be received by Charlene Parsons, CIGNA Corporation, 1650 Market Street OL54H, Philadelphia, PA, 19192 before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the seventh calendar day following the date you sign this Agreement. The Agreement will have no force and effect until the end of that seventh day; provided that, during such seven-day period, the Company shall not be able to revoke this Agreement or cancel it.
13.
 
If Legal Action Is Started by You.
 
You understand and agree that Company's main reason for entering into this Agreement is to avoid lawsuits and other litigation. Therefore, if any legal action covered by paragraph 4 or 9 (other than arbitration of a dispute described in paragraph 9.a or b or claims related to whether your release of ADEA claims was knowing and voluntary) is started by you (or by someone else on your behalf) against any Company Released Person with respect to any Claim released by you under paragraph 4, you agree to withdraw such proceeding or claim with prejudice.
If you fail to withdraw such proceeding or claim within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the Company requesting that you withdraw such proceeding or claim (or in the case of a class action, within 30 days of the later of such request or your being given the opportunity to opt out), then in addition to any other equitable or legal relief that the Company may be entitled to:
11
You represent that as of Today you have not assigned to any other party, and agree not to assign, any claim released by you under this Agreement. (If you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary, the Company reserves its right to recover from you its attorneys fees and/or costs in defending that claim, at the conclusion of that action.)
Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction or arbitrator that a release or waiver of claims provided for by paragraph 4 above is illegal, void or unenforceable, the Company or you, as the case may be, may require the other party to execute promptly a release that is legal and enforceable and does not extend to Claims not released under paragraph 4. If you fail to execute such a release within a reasonable period of time, then this Agreement shall be null and void from Today on, and any money paid to you by the Company after Today under paragraph 3 (except sub-paragraphs 3.a and 3.i) and not previously returned to the Company, will be treated as an overpayment. You will have to repay that overpayment to the Company with interest, compounded annually at the rate of 6%. However, the repayment provision in this paragraph does not apply to legal actions in which you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary.
This paragraph 13 does not apply to any thing of value given to you for which you actually performed services and by law you are entitled to receive.
14.
 
Legal Action by the Company.
The Company represents that as of Today neither it nor any of its affiliates has assigned to any other party, and agrees not to assign, any claim released by it under this Agreement. In addition, the Company promises that neither it nor any of its affiliates will file a lawsuit or an arbitration claim against you or any other Released Persons asserting any claim released by the Company or any of the Company Released Parties under this Agreement and, to the extent that the Company or any affiliate does commence such a proceeding, the Company agrees that it or its affiliate will withdraw such proceeding with prejudice. If the Company or any affiliate fails to withdraw any proceeding or claim with respect to any claim released under this Agreement within 30 days of receipt of written notice from you requesting that such withdrawal, the Company agrees to pay you the reasonable costs and attorneys' fees you incur in defending such action.
12
15.
 
Representations
.
 
The Company represents and warrants that (a) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been fully and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action (including, without limitation, by any action required to be taken by the board of directors of the Company or any affiliate, any committee of such board or any committee or designee administering the applicable CIGNA plans, including the Incentive Plan); (b) the officer signing this Agreement on behalf of the Company is duly authorized to do so; (c) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement does not violate any applicable law, regulation, order, judgment or decree or any agreement, plan or corporate governance document to which the Company or any affiliate is a party or by which it is bound; and (d) upon execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties, it shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally.
16.
 
Notices
. Except as provided below, any notice, request or other communication given in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given (a) when personally delivered to the recipient or (b) provided that a written acknowledgement of receipt is obtained, three days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or two days after being sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier, to the address specified in this paragraph 16 (or such other address as the recipient shall have specified by ten days advance written notice given in accordance with this paragraph 16). Such communication shall be addressed to you as follows (unless such address is changed in accordance with this paragraph 16):
Gregory H. Wolf
207 Ladbroke Rd
Bryn Mawr, PA 19010
and to the Company or CIGNA as follows:
Charlene Parsons
CIGNA Corporation
1650 Market Street OL54H
Philadelphia, PA, 19192
However, CIGNA and you may deliver any notices or other communications related to any employee benefit or compensation plans, programs or arrangements in the same manner that similar communications are delivered to or from other current or former employees, including by electronic transmission and first class mail.
 
13
17.
 
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement will be binding on and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors, heirs (in your case) and permitted assigns. No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred without your prior written consent, except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale, liquidation or other disposition of the assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to the Company (or in connection with a purchase of Company assets, assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company under this Agreement), either contractually or as a matter of law. Your rights or obligations under this Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by you, without the Companys prior written consent, other than your rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law or pursuant to the terms of the applicable plan, program, grant or agreement of CIGNA or the Company. In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, references in this Agreement to you shall be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to your legal representative, or, where appropriate, to your beneficiary or beneficiaries.
18.
 
This Agreement is not effective or binding on either party until fully signed by both parties.
The persons named below have signed this Agreement on the dates shown below:
 
 


