FILE:CI/CI-8K-20050606080142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
During meetings with certain analysts and investors on June 6, 2005, at a conference sponsored by FTN Securities on June 8, 2005, and during telephone calls for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to reconfirm CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations estimate for full year 2005 and to reconfirm CIGNA's expectations regarding membership results, as discussed on the Company's May 4, 2005 conference call. A transcript of the May 4
th
call is available at
http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/release/1Q05_Transcript.pdf
CIGNA's presentation at the FTN Securities Conference is expected to begin at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation free over the Internet via webcast by visiting
http://www.cigna.com
and clicking on the Investor Relations link.
To listen to this presentation live on the Internet, visit
http://www.cigna.com
at least 15 minutes prior to the presentation (to download and install any necessary audio software).
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information regarding the Companys earnings estimates for the full year 2005 and expectations regarding membership results. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


