FILE:CI/CI-8K-20050504080540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
On May 4, 2005, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the first quarter 2005. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 4, 2005
- -- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $436 million, or $3.28 per share
1
, for the first quarter of 2005 compared with net income of $68 million
2
, or $0.48 per share
,
1
2
, for the same period last year. The increase primarily reflects higher earnings in the health care, disability and life, and international businesses and accelerated gain recognition on the sale of the retirement benefits business.
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations
3
was $297 million, or $2.24 per share
1
, for the first quarter of 2005 versus $253 million
2
, or $1.79 per share
,
1
2
, for the same period last year. The increase primarily reflects higher earnings in CIGNAs health and related benefits businesses.
Our results for the first quarter reflect continuing strong performance by our health care, group disability and life, and international businesses, said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNAs chairman and chief executive officer. CIGNAs strong capabilities in medical management and consumer-focused benefits programs are being well-received in the marketplace. We continue to strengthen our position as an industry leader in helping our members stay healthy and productive while helping employers control their benefits costs.
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNAs web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call, on which management will review first quarter 2005 results and provide full year and second quarter 2005 outlook, is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
 
 
*Notes:
 
First Quarter 2005
First Quarter 2004
Fourth Quarter 2004
 
 
 
 
 
Other than these items, information is not available for management to reasonably estimate 2005 special items.
 
 
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates for the full year and second quarter of 2005. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 2
 
 
 
 
 
* Prior period results (first quarter of 2004) have been restated to reflect the expensing of stock options resulting from the implementation of SFAS 123-R.
** Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 


