FILE:CI/CI-8K-20060324100555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
On March 21, 2006, in connection with the planned retirement, on June 30, 2006, of Judith E. Soltz, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of CIGNA, Ms. Soltz entered into an agreement with CIGNA Corporation pursuant to which she made certain promises, covenants and waivers, including those relating to non-competition and non-solicitation. Pursuant to this agreement, Ms. Soltz will receive a retainer of $250,000 to remain available to provide, and for providing, legal counsel to CIGNA during 2006 following her retirement. Also, Ms. Soltz will receive $1,467,000 for the strategic performance units previously granted to her under CIGNA's Long-Term Incentive Plan, prorated based on the number of months that she was employed during each performance period; a bonus payment of $200,000 for services during 2006 prior to her retirement; and a cash payment for the 11,560 deferred stock units she was granted in 2003, valued at the average closing price of CIGNA common stock for the 30 calendar day period ending on June 30, 2006. Ms. Soltz shares of restricted stock will vest upon her retirement, as will her stock options, which will expire at their original terms. She will receive a cash payment of $20,000 in lieu of continued participation in the Financial Services Program. Ms. Soltz will also receive the benefits, including pension benefits, she earned under various employee benefit plans. Ms. Soltz responsibilities as Executive Vice President and General Counsel will end on April 28, 2006.
 
The summary of the agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1.01.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
This Agreement and Release (Agreement) is dated March 21, 2006 (Today), and is between Judith E. Soltz (you) and CIGNA Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company).
You and the Company intend to be legally bound by the Agreement, and are entering into it in reliance on the promises made to each other in the Agreement. Under the Agreement, your employment will end, and you and the Company agree to settle all issues concerning your employment and termination of employment. The Company will pay you certain benefits described in this agreement. In turn, you are releasing legal claims against the Company.
1.      
Your Retirement Date.
Your employment with Company will end upon your retirement on June 30, 2006 (the Retirement Date). Your responsibilities as CIGNA Corporation General Counsel will end April 28, 2006. From that date until your Retirement Date, you will remain available to assist in the transition of responsibilities to your successor. You agree to be available to consult with members of the Executive Management Team from July 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006.
2.
  
Pay and Benefits Until Retirement Date.
 
 
 
3.
  
Pay and Benefits after Retirement Date.
 
 
 
2
 
4.       
Your Promises to the Company.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
5.       
Your Release of Claims.
 
 
6
 
6.       
Confidentiality.
 
The terms of this Agreement are confidential. You agree not to disclose in any way this Agreement or any of its terms to any person other than your spouse, lawyer or accountant.
7.        
No Admission of Wrongdoing.
 
Just because the Company is entering into this Agreement and paying you money, the Company is not admitting that it (or any Released Person) has done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.
8.        
Applicable Law.
 
This Agreement is being made in Pennsylvania. It will be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of Pennsylvania, but your eligibility for, or the amount of any, employee benefits shall be subject to the terms of the benefit plans and the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).
9.        
Arbitration.
 
Without in any way affecting the release in paragraph 5, any and all disagreements, disputes or claims listed below will be resolved exclusively by arbitration in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. Arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association, as modified by Company. Copies of the Arbitration Policy and Rules and Procedures can be obtained from your Human Resources representative. A legal judgment based upon the Arbitrators award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the matter. You and the Company agree to arbitrate anything:
10.      
Final and Entire Agreement.
 
This Agreement is intended to be the complete, entire and final agreement between you and the Company. It fully replaces all earlier agreements or understandings; however, it does not replace the terms of any CIGNA stock or option grant you might have received or the terms of any employee benefit plan. Neither you nor the Company has relied upon any other statement, agreement or contract, written or oral, in deciding to enter into this Agreement. Any amendment to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by both you and the Company.
 
 
 
 
7
11.       
Your Understanding.
 
By signing this Agreement, you admit and agree that:
12.      
Revoking the Agreement.
 
You have seven calendar days after the date you sign this Agreement to revoke and cancel it. To do that, a clear, written cancellation letter, signed by you, must be received by Charlene Parsons, CIGNA Corporation, 1650 Market Street OL54H, Philadelphia, PA, 19192 before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the seventh calendar day following the date you sign this Agreement. The Agreement will have no force and effect until the end of that seventh day.
13.      
If Legal Action Is Started.
 
You understand and agree that the Company's main reason for entering into this Agreement is to avoid lawsuits and other litigation. Therefore, if any legal action covered by paragraph 5 or 9 (other than arbitration of a dispute described in paragraph 9.a or b or claims related to whether your release of ADEA claims was knowing and voluntary) is started by you (or by someone else on your behalf) against any Released Person, you agree to pay back to the Company within 30 days of the start of that legal action all the money you receive under sub-paragraphs 2. b and 3.b, c, e and i. You also agree to pay the Company any costs and attorneys' fees it incurs in that action. (If you claim that your release of ADEA claims was
 
 
 
8
 
not knowing and voluntary, the Company reserves its right to recover from you its attorneys fees and/or costs in defending that claim, at the conclusion of that action.)
If in any legal action or arbitration the release in paragraph 5 is found to be unenforceable for any reason, then this Agreement shall be null and void from Today on, and any money paid or value delivered to you by the Company after Today under sub-paragraphs 2. b and 3.b, c, e and i and not previously returned to the Company will be treated as an overpayment. You will have to repay that overpayment to the Company with interest, compounded annually at the rate of 6%. However, the repayment provision in this paragraph does not apply to legal actions in which you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary.
This paragraph 13 does not apply to any thing of value given to you for which you actually performed services and by law you are entitled to receive.
14.
 
This Agreement is not effective or binding on either party until fully signed by both parties. This Agreement will be binding on and inure to the benefit of any successors to the Company.
The persons named below have signed this Agreement on the dates shown below:
 
 


