FILE:CI/CI-8K-20060802080037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
On August 2, 2006, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the second quarter 2006. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
PHILADELPHIA, August 2, 2006
-- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $273 million, or $2.33 per share
1
, for the second quarter of 2006 compared with $720 million, or $5.48 per share
1
, for the same period last year. Net income for the second quarter of 2005 included income from discontinued operations of $349 million, related to the disposition of certain businesses in 1999.
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations
2
was $270 million, or $2.31 per share
1
, for the second quarter of 2006 versus $260 million, or $1.98 per share
1
, for the same period last year. The increase reflects solid earnings in CIGNA's health care business and strong results in the disability and life and international businesses.
Our overall results during the second quarter of 2006 were strong and reflected continued execution of our strategic priorities, said CIGNA Chairman and CEO H. Edward Hanway. Adjusted income from operations was ahead of our expectations, and our health care membership remains on track to grow organically this year.
We also took a significant step to broaden and extend our portfolio of products and services by acquiring Star HRG, a leading provider of low-cost health plans for hourly and part-time workers. As a result of actions we have taken to strengthen our capabilities in consumerism, health advocacy and information transparency - including this acquisition - we are well positioned in the marketplace to provide a comprehensive, integrated portfolio of cost-effective benefit plans that meet the needs of employers while giving our members the means to improve their health and well-being.
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNAs web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call, on which management will review second quarter 2006 results and discuss the full year and third quarter 2006 outlook, is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
 
*Notes:
 
Second Quarter 2005
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNA's cost reduction programs and activities, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and CIGNA's outlook for the full year and third quarter 2006. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


