FILE:CI/CI-8K-20061101080027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
On November 1, 2006, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the third quarter 2006. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, November 1, 2006
-- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $298 million, or $2.75 per share
1
, for the third quarter of 2006 compared with $259 million, or $2.00 per share
1
, for the same period last year.
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations
2
was $268 million, or $2.48 per share
1
, for the third quarter of 2006 versus $251 million, or $1.94 per share
1
, for the same period last year. This quarters earnings reflect strong results in CIGNA's health care business.
We are very pleased with our consolidated results for the quarter. Consolidated earnings exceeded our expectations, and membership grew as expected in the quarter. We continue to invest in and capitalize on our capabilities as a consumer focused health advocate to maintain our leadership position in the consumer driven benefits marketplace, said CIGNA Chairman and CEO H. Edward Hanway.
We are winning new business in a very competitive marketplace because we are demonstrating to current and prospective customers the value of our consumerism and health advocacy capabilities. Employers understand how the health advocacy, cost and quality information we provide can help their employees lead healthier and more productive lives and at the same time how our health and wellness solutions
 
are helping them better manage their employee-benefit expenses.
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations
2
to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNAs web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call, on which management will review third quarter 2006 results and discuss the full year 2006 and 2007 outlook, is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
 
*Notes:
 
Third Quarter 2005
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNA's cost reduction programs and activities, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and CIGNA's outlook for the full year 2006 and 2007. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
Exhibit 1
Includes the following items:
*
(1) Pre-tax results from certain derivatives recorded in run-off reinsurance operations ($32 million loss for the third quarter of 2006, $56 million loss for the nine months of 2006, $45 million loss for the third quarter of 2005, $28 million loss for the nine months of 2005). CIGNA recorded corresponding offsets in other benefit expenses to adjust liabilities for certain specialty life reinsurance contracts.
(2) Pre-tax accelerated amortization ($2 million for the third quarter of 2006, $8 million for the nine months of 2006, $10 million for the third quarter of 2005 and $315 million for the nine months of 2005) of deferred gain on sale of retirement benefits business.
(3) Pre-tax benefit of $6 million ($4 million after-tax) for the nine months of 2005 related to an IRS tax settlement.
See Exhibit 2 for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) from operations to segment earnings (loss) and consolidated income from continuing operations and consolidated net income presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
**
 
 
Exhibit 2
 
 
 
CIGNA measures the financial results of its segments using "segment earnings (loss)," which is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses).
*
Income from continuing operations and net income are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
**
 
 


