FILE:CI/CI-8K-20060503080024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
On May 3, 2006 CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the first quarter 2006. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
N
EWS RELEASE 
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 3, 2006
-- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $352 million, or $2.87 per share
1
, for the first quarter of 2006 compared with $436 million, or $3.28 per share
1
, for the same period last year.
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations
2
was $258 million, or $2.11 per share
1
, for the first quarter of 2006 versus $297 million, or $2.24 per share
1
, for the same period last year. The decrease primarily reflects lower earnings in CIGNA's health care business.
We generated solid earnings in each of our businesses in the first quarter of 2006, said H. Edward Hanway, chairman and chief executive officer of CIGNA Corporation. In health care, our membership was stable and remains on track for growth over the course of the year. Our group disability and life business and our international operations posted strong results reflecting the strength of their competitive positions. Looking ahead, well continue to invest in and capitalize on our unique capabilities as a consumer-focused health advocate to improve the health of our members and maintain our leadership in the consumer-driven benefits marketplace.
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNAs web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call, on which management will review first quarter 2006 results and discuss the full year and second quarter 2006 outlook, is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
*Notes:
Fourth Quarter 2005
First Quarter 2005
 
 
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates for the full year and second quarter 2006. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
 
 
 
*
CIGNA measures the financial results of its segments using "segment earnings (loss)," which is defined as net income (loss) excluding after-tax realized investment gains (losses). 
**
Net income is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 


