FILE:CI/CI-8K-20061208092159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
On December 8, 2006, CIGNA Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that it has reached an agreement to resolve claims filed in federal court against the Company and certain of its officers in 2002 on behalf of a class of CIGNA shareholders (the Shareholder Litigation). In the release, the Company also confirmed that the settlement would not affect its consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for 2006. Accordingly, CIGNA reconfirms its consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full years 2006 and 2007 and its expectations regarding membership results, as discussed on the Company's November 1, 2006 conference call. A transcript of the November 1
st
call is available at
http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/release/3Q06_Transcript.pdf
.
 
Adjusted income from operations is net income excluding realized investment results and special items. Information is not available for management to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors. In addition to the settlement of the Shareholder Litigation, special items for full year 2006 could include potential charges associated with cost reduction initiatives. Special items for full year 2007 could include potential charges associated with matters in litigation. Other than these items, information is not available for management to identify or reasonably estimate 2006 or 2007 special items.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the press release contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
CAUTIONARY
STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future operating performance improvements, trends, and in particular, CIGNA's cost reduction programs and activities, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNA's full year 2006 and 2007 results. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of the annual report on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, including the Risk Factors section and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
   
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PHILADELPHIA, December 8, 2006
CIGNA announced today that it has reached an agreement to resolve claims filed in federal court against the company and certain of its officers in 2002 on behalf of a class of CIGNA shareholders.
 
The settlement, which specifies $93 million to be paid to the plaintiffs and their attorneys, is subject to a definitive written agreement by the parties and approval by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The settlement is also dependent upon a certain level of class participation. A fairness hearing before the Court is expected to be held in April 2007 with final approval expected shortly thereafter.
CIGNA agreed to reach this settlement in order to avoid the time and expense involved in proceeding to trial. It is important to note that, under the terms of the settlement, CIGNA does not admit to any wrongdoing by the company or its officers, said CIGNA General Counsel Carol Ann Petren.
In connection with the agreement, CIGNA Corporation will take a non-recurring charge in the fourth quarter of 2006 of approximately $25 million after tax. The estimated charge includes certain costs to defend and is net of expected insurance recoveries.
The charge will be reported as a special item and will not affect the companys 2006 estimate of consolidated adjusted income from operations which we have previously estimated at between $995 million to $1.035 billion. Adjusted income from operations excludes special items and realized investment results. Information is not currently available for management to reasonably estimate realized investment results or other special items and therefore management is not able to reasonably estimate fourth quarter 2006 GAAP net income. Other special items for the fourth quarter 2006, as previously communicated, could include charges associated with cost reduction initiatives.
CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI), headquartered in Philadelphia, and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest publicly-owned providers of health care, disability, life and accident insurance benefits in the United States and selected markets around the world. Web site:
http://www.cigna.com
.
 
 
 


