FILE:CI/CI-8K-20060306073015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
At conferences sponsored by Cowen & Co. in Boston on March 6, 2006 and Lehman Brothers in Miami on March 8, 2006, and during meetings and telephone calls for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to reconfirm CIGNA's adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2006 and to reconfirm CIGNA's expectations regarding membership results, as discussed on the Company's February 8, 2006 conference call. A transcript of the February 8
th
call is available at
http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/release/4Q05_Transcript.pdf
CIGNAs presentation at the Cowen & Co. 26
th
Annual Healthcare Conference is expected to begin at
2:20 p.m.,
Eastern Time, and the presentation at the Lehman Brothers 9
th
Annual Global Healthcare Conference is expected to begin at 2:00 p.m.
,
Eastern Time. Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentations over the Internet via webcast by visiting and clicking on the Investor Relations link.
http://www.cigna.com
To listen to the presentations live on the Internet, visit at least 15 minutes prior to the presentation (to download and install any necessary audio software).
http://www.cigna.com
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates and outlook for the full year of 2006 and expectations regarding membership results. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of the annual report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


