FILE:CI/CI-8K-20071126211337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 .
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On November 26, 2007, CIGNA Corporation, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company ("CG Life"), entered into an asset and stock purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with affiliates of Great-West Lifeco Inc. ("Great-West").  Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, CG Life will acquire from Great-West the stop loss, group life, group disability, group medical, group dental, group vision, group prescription drug coverage and group accidental death and dismemberment insurance business of Great-West in the United States through (1) 100% indemnity reinsurance agreements and related administrative services agreements to be executed at the closing of the transactions and (2) the acquisition of certain subsidiaries of Great-West engaged in these businesses.  The transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement are referred to collectively as the "Transactions."
 
The purchase price under the Purchase Agreement is $1.5 billion in cash.  In addition, CG Life expects to fund approximately $400 million of additional capital to support the acquired business. According to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the purchase price is subject to adjustment.
 
The Purchase Agreement contains various representations, warranties and covenants of CG Life and Great-West, including, among others (i) a covenant that requires Great-West to conduct its business in the ordinary course during the period between the execution of the Purchase Agreement and the closing of the Transactions and (ii) a covenant prohibiting Great-West from, among other things, soliciting proposals from, or negotiating with, anyone other than CG Life regarding any potential sale, disposition, or business combination involving all or any part of the businesses being acquired by CG Life.
 
The closing of the Transactions, which is expected to occur in the first half of 2008, is subject to various conditions, including, among others (i) receipt of required regulatory approvals, (ii) the absence of material adverse effect on the Great-Wests business, (iii) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the closing and (iv) the execution and delivery of certain ancillary agreements by both CG Life and Great-West.  In addition, each party's obligation to consummate the Transactions is subject to certain other conditions, including (i) the accuracy of the respective parties representations and warranties and (ii) compliance of the other party with its covenants in all material respects.
 
As part of the Transaction Agreement, Great-West will indemnify CG Life for certain excluded liabilities and for breaches of its representations, warranties and covenants.  CG Life will provide indemnification to Great-West for breaches of its representations, warranties and covenants.
 
The Transaction Agreement may be terminated in certain circumstances, including among others (i) if a governmental entity has issued a final, unappealable order prohibiting or restraining the consummation of the Transactions and (ii) if the closing of the Transactions has not occurred within 12 months of the date the Purchase Agreement was executed by the parties.
The foregoing summary of the Purchase Agreement and the Transactions does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Purchase Agreement, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Companys next filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
Beginning on Tuesday, November 27, 2007, and for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to participate in meetings with investors and analysts, some of which will be at the 9th Annual Merrill Lynch Health Services Investor Conference.  During these meetings, Company officials expect to reconfirm CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2007 and 2008 and to reconfirm CIGNA's expectations regarding membership results for full year 2007 and 2008, as discussed on the Company's November 2, 2007 conference call.  A transcript of the November 2call is available at   CIGNA's current estimates regarding full year 2007 and 2008 consolidated adjusted income from operations and membership results do not reflect the impact of the Transactions described in Item 1.01.
nd
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html
.
Adjusted income from operations is income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results and special items. Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors or (2) to identify or reasonably estimate 2007 special items or additional 2008 special items; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to income from continuing operations.
Special items for 2008 could include charges associated with adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, entitled "Fair Value Measurements", which clarifies the measurement of and expands disclosures regarding the fair valuing of certain assets and liabilities. Management at this time can not reasonably quantify these charges. However, due to changes in these assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on the Run-off Reinsurance segment and CIGNA's results of operations at implementation. The impact on CIGNA's financial condition at implementation is not expected to be material.
The foregoing statements represent management's current estimate of CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends, and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNA's productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNA's full year 2007 and 2008 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary Statement in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007,  June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements.  CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
Item 8.01 .
Other Events
 
On November 26, 2007, CIGNA Corporation issued a news release announcing the Transactions.
 
The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)   Exhibits.
 
99.1  CIGNA Corporation news release dated November 26, 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: November 26, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
  
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CONTACTS:
CIGNA (NYSE: CI) announced today that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Great-West Healthcare, the Healthcare Division of Great-West Life & Annuity, Inc.  Under the terms of the agreement, CIGNA will pay approximately $1.5 billion in cash to Great-West Life & Annuity and to fund approximately $400 million of additional capital to support the acquired business.  The transaction, subject to required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, is expected to close during the first half of 2008.
Philadelphia, November 26, 2007 
Headquartered in metro Denver, Colorado, Great-West Healthcare has 3,750 employees and currently serves 2.2 million covered lives, including approximately 1.5 million medical members in its employer segments.  Great-Wests national health care network consists of some 4,275 hospitals and more than 575,000 physicians and ancillary providers.
Great-West Healthcare will be a significant addition to CIGNA.  Great-West Healthcares talented team of employees has built the companys reputation for strong service and innovation, and we look forward to welcoming them to CIGNA, said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA chairman and chief executive officer. Great-West Healthcares capabilities clearly complement our own.  This transaction will broaden our distribution reach and provider network in key geographic areas of the country, particularly the Western regions of the United States, and expand the range of health benefits and products we offer employers and their employees.
Mr. Hanway noted that Great-West Healthcares competitively differentiated offerings appeal to employer groups of all sizes, and have been particularly well received by small to mid-sized businesses seeking the financial flexibility afforded by a variety of funding options. This acquisition aligns very well with our strategy by enhancing our competitiveness in the middle market segment and expanding our participation and offerings in the small business segment.
The acquisition is inclusive of Great-West Healthcares full portfolio of health and group insurance offerings and the supporting information technology infrastructure.  Great-West Healthcares products include traditional managed care PPO, POS, HMO and Open Access plans, as well as consumer-driven health care products such as HRAs and HSAs, and are offered in association with a range of flexible funding options.  Great-West Healthcares offerings will be added to the CIGNA portfolio to complement its current range of health benefits and related specialty products and services, expanding the choices it offers, particularly to small to mid-sized employers.
CIGNA's acquisition of Great-West Healthcare combines complementary strengths in products and expertise, and will build on the strong provider relationships that are important to both organizations, said Rick Rivers, executive vice president Great-West Healthcare. Our customers and members will gain access to additional CIGNA resources and value-added services and programs.  CIGNA intends to build on Great-West Healthcares competitively differentiated offerings to expand its operations and create near-term and long-term growth opportunities.
CIGNA anticipates the acquisition to be accretive to its full year 2008 earnings per share outlook of $4.00 to $4.20 per share.  The transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2009 and beyond by achieving synergies related to managing medical costs, capturing operating expense synergies and growing membership over time.
Management will hold a conference call for analysts and investors to discuss this acquisition and provide additional details regarding financial expectations on Tuesday, November 27, 2007 beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET.  The call - in numbers for the conference call are as follows:
                                          Live Call
                                          (888) 599-4858 (Domestic)
                                          (913) 312-0945 (International)
                                          Replay
                                          (888) 203-1112 (Domestic replay)
                                          (719) 457-0820 (International replay)
                                          Passcode: 6674830
A replay of the call will be available from 11:30 a.m. ET on Tuesday, November 27 until 11:59 p.m. ET on Tuesday, December 11. Additionally, the conference call can be accessed on a live internet web cast by clicking 
.
https://cis.premconf.com/sc/scw.dll/usr?cid=vlllrznwdwzvmddcr
Banc of America Securities LLC is acting as exclusive financial advisor and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is acting as legal counsel to CIGNA in the transaction.
About CIGNA
CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest investor owned health and related benefits organizations in the United States. CIGNA (NYSE: CI) provides employers with benefits, expertise and services that improve the health, well-being and productivity of their employees. With approximately 47 million covered lives in the United States and around the world, CIGNA's operating subsidiaries offer a full portfolio of medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits and group life, accident and disability insurance.  Web site: http://www..com/.
cigna
About Great-West Healthcare
Great-West Healthcare, is the healthcare division of Great-West Life & Annuity Inc., a Denver, Colorado-based, indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Great-West Lifeco Inc. and a member of the Power Financial Corporation group of companies.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends, and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNA's productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNA's full year 2007 and 2008 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary Statement in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007,  June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements.  CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.


