FILE:CI/CI-8K-20070530085907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
Beginning on May 30, 2007 and for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to attend meetings and participate in telephone calls with investors and analysts during which they expect to reconfirm CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2007 and to reconfirm CIGNA's expectations regarding membership results for full year 2007, as discussed on the Company's May 2, 2007 conference call. In addition, as noted in our first quarter, 2007 filing on Form 10Q, with respect to the Run-Off Reinsurance segment, the Company has been monitoring its experience related to the annuitization election rates under agreements that reinsure guaranteed minimum income benefit contracts issued by other insurance companies. Based on experience received to date, the Company now expects that it will increase reserves related to this product during 2007. While the actual amount and timing of the reserve increase are uncertain at this time as the Company is presently evaluating the extent to which emerging experience warrants a change in long term assumptions, based on experience received to date, current interest rates and current equity market levels, the Company does not expect the charge to exceed $100 million, after tax. Accordingly, the anticipated charge which is expected to be classified as a special item, could be material to financial results for the year ended December 31, 2007, but is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of the Company.
A transcript of the May 2
nd
call is available at
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor _relations/recent_disclosures.html.
Some of the meetings noted above will take place at Bank of America
's 2007 Global Healthcare Conference, where
CIGNA will make a presentation on May 30, 2007, which is expected to begin at 8:00 a.m., Pacific Daylight Time. Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation over the Internet via webcast by visiting http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/index.html and going to the Event Calendar.
Adjusted income from operations is income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results and special items. Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors or (2) to identify or reasonably estimate 2007 special items, except as noted above.
The foregoing statements represent management's current estimate of CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations as of the date of this report. Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
 
 
CAUTIONARY
STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends, and, in particular, CIGNAs productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters,
operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNAs full year 2007 results. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. Other sections of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


