FILE:CI/CI-8K-20071102080045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR    240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 Item 2.02  .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 2, 2007, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the third quarter 2007.  The news release is attached hereto as .
Exhibit 99.1
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
-- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $365 million, or $1.28 per share, for the third quarter of 2007 compared with $298 million, or $0.92 per share, for the same period last year.
PHILADELPHIA, November 2, 2007
1
,
1
2
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations was $323 million, or $1.14 per share, for the third quarter of 2007 versus $268 million, or $0.83 per share, for the same period last year.
3
1
,
1
2
Our consolidated earnings for the quarter were strong, and the marketplace continues to recognize CIGNA as a health advocate well-equipped to help improve the health, well-being and security of the people we serve, said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA chairman and chief executive officer.
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
3
 
 
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNA's consolidated and Health Care segment adjusted income from operations as of the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this release for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
3
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNAs website in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html).  A link to the conference call, on which management will review third quarter 2007 results and discuss the full year 2007 and 2008 outlook, is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/events.html).
Notes:
Third Quarter 2007
Second Quarter 2007
Nine months ended September 30, 2007
 
Third Quarter 2007
Second Quarter 2007
Nine months ended September 30, 2007
Third Quarter 2006
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends, and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNA's productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNA's full year 2007 and 2008 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary Statement in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements.  CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
* Includes the following item
:
- Pre-tax results from certain derivatives recorded in run-off reinsurance operations ($11 million loss for the third quarter of 2007, $46 million loss for the nine months 2007, $32 million loss for the third quarter of 2006, $56 million loss for the nine months of 2006).  CIGNA recorded corresponding offsets in other benefit expenses to adjust liabilities for certain specialty life reinsurance contracts.
**
See
Exhibit 2
for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) from operations to segment earnings (loss) and consolidated income from continuing operations and consolidated net income presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
*** In the second quarter of 2007
, CIGNA completed a three-for-one stock split of CIGNA's common shares. All share and per share figures have been adjusted to reflect the stock split.
 
 
 
 
 
* All earnings per share figures have been adjusted to reflect the three-for-one stock split of CIGNA's common shares
.
 
** CIGNA measures the financial results of its segments using "segment earnings (loss)," which is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses).
 
*** Income from continuing operations and net income are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
.


