FILE:CI/CI-8K-20080606171447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 9, 2008 and June 10, 2008,  Company officials expect to participate in meetings with investors and analysts.  During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for the full year 2008 and to reaffirm CIGNA's expectations regarding medical membership results for full year 2008, as discussed on the Company's first quarter 2008 earnings conference call.  A transcript of the first quarter 2008 earnings call is available at .
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html
Some of these meetings will be at the 29 Annual Goldman Sachs Healthcare Conference, where CIGNA will make a presentation on June 10, 2008 that is expected to begin at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time.  Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation over the Internet via webcast by visiting and going to the Event Calendar.
th
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/index.html
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is consolidated income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.  Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors,  (2) to identify or reasonably estimate 2008 special items or (3) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to income from continuing operations
.
The foregoing statements represent management's current estimate of CIGNA's consolidated adjusted income from operations as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends, and, in particular, CIGNAs productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNAs full year 2008 results. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of CIGNAs most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary Statement in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, CIGNA's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements.  CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


