FILE:CI/CI-8K-20080312210747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01  .
Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 12, 2008, CIGNA issued a news release to reaffirm guidance for full year 2008.  The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Beginning on Thursday, March 13, 2008, and for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to participate in meetings and calls with investors and analysts.  During these meetings and calls, Company officials expect to reaffirm guidance for the full year 2008, as discussed on the Company's February 6, 2008 conference call and in the press release attached hereto.  A transcript of the February 6 call is available at .
th
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor _relations/recent_disclosures.html
Company officials also expect to discuss recent regulatory approvals in connection with the acquisition of the U.S. health care business of Great-West Life & Annuity Insurance Company and its affiliates, as further described in the press release attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
99.1  
CIGNA Corporation news release dated March 12, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
    PHILADELPHIA, March 12, 2008/Business Wire/ -- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: ) announced today that it is reaffirming its guidance for full year 2008 consolidated adjusted income from operations to be in the range of $1.165 billion to $1.225 billion, or $4.05 to $4.25 per share and adjusted income from operations for the Health Care segment to be in the range of $740 million to $780 million. Additionally, for full year 2008, CIGNA reaffirmed medical membership growth of 2% to 5% and medical cost trend for the total book of business to be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5%. The medical membership estimate excludes the impact of membership growth related to the pending acquisition of Great-West Healthcare.
CI
3
CIGNA also announced that, in connection with the acquisition of the U.S. health care business of Great-West Life & Annuity Insurance Company and its affiliates, the required waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, has expired and the Company has received approvals from the insurance departments of nine states. The Company expects to obtain approvals from six additional states prior to March 31, 2008.  CIGNA continues to target April 1, 2008 to close the acquisition of Great-West Healthcare.
The foregoing statements represent management's current estimate of CIGNA's consolidated and Health Care segment adjusted income from operations as of the date of this release.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this release for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
   CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest investor owned health and related benefits organizations in the United States.  Its subsidiaries are major providers of health and related benefits offered through the workplace, including health care products and services, group life, accident and disability insurance.  As of December 31, 2007, CIGNA Corp. and its subsidiaries had shareholders' equity of $4.7 billion.  Full-year 2007 revenues totaled $17.6 billion.  Web site: http://www.cigna.com.
Notes:
 
 
 
 
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects,
 
economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends, and, in particular, CIGNAs productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for CIGNAs full year 2008 results. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of CIGNAs most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary
 
Statement in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements.  CIGNA does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 


