FILE:CI/CI-8K-20080926153255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
CIGNA issued a news release announcing that, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, on September 24, 2008 the Board of Directors appointed John M. Partridge as a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation effective January 26, 2009.
As a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation, Mr. Partridge is eligible to participate in the CIGNA Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan of 2005 for Directors of CIGNA Corporation filed as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.4, respectively, to CIGNA Corporations Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Index to Exhibits
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
-- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) announced today that John M. Partridge, chief operating officer of Visa, Inc., will join CIGNA Corporation's Board of Directors effective January 26, 2009.
PHILADELPHIA, September 26, 2008
 
"We welcome John as the newest member of our board of directors," said H. Edward Hanway, chairman and chief executive officer of CIGNA Corporation. Johns management and IT experience will certainly be beneficial as we transform CIGNA into the nations leading health service company.
 
Partridge was appointed chief operating officer of Visa Inc. and interim president of Visa U.S.A. in July 2007. He joined Visa U.S.A. in October 1999 and has served as president and CEO of Inovant since November 2000. From 1998 until joining Visa, Partridge served as senior vice president and chief information officer of Unum Provident Corp., where he led a corporate restructuring initiative and had direct responsibility for technology and operations. From 1989 to 1998, he was executive vice president for Credicorp Inc., where he was responsible for consumer banking, technology and operations. Prior to that he held various management positions with Wells Fargo.
 
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics from the University of California at Berkeley.
 
More information on CIGNA's Board of Directors is available at: 
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/governance/index.html
 
 
 
About CIGNA
 
CIGNA (NYSE: CI), one of the nation's leading health service companies, is dedicated to helping the people we serve improve their health, well-being and security through a diversified portfolio of benefits and services. Serving approximately 47 million people throughout the
United States
and around the world, CIGNA's operating subsidiaries offer a full portfolio of medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits as well as group life, accident and disability insurance. To learn more about CIGNA visit
www.cigna.com
.


