FILE:CI/CI-8K-20081030080018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR    240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 30, 2008, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the third quarter 2008.  The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Index to Exhibits
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
- -- CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $171 million, or $0.62 per share, for the third quarter of 2008 compared with $365 million, or $1.28 per share, for the same period last year. Net income for the third quarter 2008 included losses from the GMIB business of $61 million after-tax, or $0.22 per share, primarily related to unfavorable equity market and interest rate movements.
PHILADELPHIA, October 30, 2008
1
1
2
1
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations for the third quarter of 2008 was $246 million, or $0.89 per share, which included losses of $0.25 per share from the VADBe business versus $321 million, or $1.13 per share, for the same period last year.
3
1
1
1
"In todays challenging economic and competitive environment our ongoing businesses posted solid results in the quarter. However, the results of our Run-off Reinsurance segment were adversely impacted this quarter by the capital market turmoil." said H. Edward Hanway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CIGNA Corporation. Our ongoing businesses continue to deliver strong value to our customers. We remain committed to improving performance in 2009 for the benefit of our shareholders."
 
-2-
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
3
 
-3-
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNA's 2008 consolidated and Health Care segment adjusted income from operations as of the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this release for a description of those factors. Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
,
3
10
This quarterly earnings release, the Quarterly Statistical Supplement, and the Investment Supplement are available on CIGNAs website in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html).  A link to the conference call, on which management will review third quarter 2008 results, discuss full year 2008 and 2009 outlook is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/events.html).
Notes:
Third Quarter 2007
Second Quarter 2008
Nine Months ended September 30, 2008
 
 
 
-6-
Third Quarter 2008
Third Quarter 2007
Second Quarter 2008
Nine months ended September 30, 2008
-7-
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2008 and 2009 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  The Company cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
1.  increased medical costs that are higher than anticipated in establishing premium rates in the Companys health care operations, including increased use and costs of medical services;
2.  increased medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from new legislative and regulatory requirements imposed on the Companys employee benefits businesses;
3.  challenges and risks associated with implementing operational improvement initiatives and strategic actions in the health care operations, including those related to: (i) offering products that meet emerging market needs, (ii) strengthening underwriting and pricing effectiveness, (iii) strengthening medical cost and medical membership results, (iv) delivering quality member and provider service using effective technology solutions, and (v) lowering administrative costs;
4.  risks associated with pending and potential state and federal class action lawsuits, disputes regarding reinsurance arrangements, other litigation and regulatory actions challenging the Companys businesses, government investigations and proceedings, and tax audits;
5.  heightened competition, particularly price competition, which could reduce product margins and constrain growth in the Companys businesses, primarily the
health care business;
6.  risks associated with the Companys mail order pharmacy business which, among other things, includes any potential operational deficiencies or service issues as well as loss or suspension of state pharmacy licenses
;
7.  significant changes in interest rates for a sustained period of time;
8.  downgrades in the financial strength ratings of the Companys insurance subsidiaries, which could, among other things, adversely affect new sales and retention of current business;
9.  limitations on the ability of the Companys insurance subsidiaries to dividend capital to the parent company as a result of downgrades in the subsidiaries financial strength ratings, changes in statutory reserve or capital requirements or other financial constraints;
10.  inability of the program adopted by the Company to substantially reduce equity market risks for reinsurance contracts that guarantee minimum death benefits also known as variable annuity death benefits under certain variable annuities (including possible market difficulties in entering into appropriate futures contracts and in matching such contracts to the underlying equity risk);
11.  adjustments to the reserve assumptions (including lapse, partial surrender, mortality, interest rates and volatility) used in estimating the Companys liabilities for reinsurance contracts covering guaranteed minimum death benefits also known as variable annuity death benefits under certain variable annuities;
12.  adjustments to the assumptions (including annuity election rates and reinsurance) used in estimating the Companys assets and liabilities for reinsurance contracts covering guaranteed minimum income benefits under certain variable annuities;
13.  significant stock market declines, which could, among other things, result in increased expenses for guaranteed minimum income benefits contracts and pension expenses for the Companys pension plan in future periods as well as the recognition of additional pension obligations;
14.  unfavorable claims experience related to workers compensation and personal accident exposures of the run-off reinsurance business, including losses attributable to the inability to recover claims from retrocessionaires;
15.  significant deterioration in economic conditions and significant market volatility, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations, investments, liquidity and access to capital markets;
 
 
 
-8-
 
16.  significant deterioration in economic conditions and significant market volatility, which could have an adverse effect on the businesses of our customers (including the amount and type of healthcare services provided to their workforce and our customers ability to pay receivables) and our vendors (including their ability to provide services);
17.  changes in public policy and in the political environment, which could affect state and federal law, including legislative and regulatory proposals related to health care issues, which could increase cost and affect the market for the Companys health care products and services; and amendments to income tax laws, which could affect the taxation of employer provided benefits, and pension legislation, which could increase pension cost;
18.  potential public health epidemics and bio-terrorist activity, which could, among other things, cause the Companys covered medical and disability expenses, pharmacy costs and mortality experience to rise significantly, and cause operational disruption, depending on the severity of the event and number of individuals affected;
19.  risks associated with security or interruption of information systems, which could, among other things, cause operational disruption;
20.  challenges and risks associated with the successful management of the Companys outsourcing projects or key vendors, including the agreement with IBM for provision of technology infrastructure and related services;
21.  the ability to successfully integrate and operate the businesses acquired from Great-West by, among other things, renewing insurance and administrative services contracts on competitive terms, retaining and growing membership, realizing revenue, expense and other synergies, successfully leveraging the information technology platform of the acquired businesses, and retaining key personnel; and
22.  the ability of the Company to execute its growth plans by successfully managing Great-West Healthcares outsourcing projects and leveraging the Company's capabilities and those of the business acquired from Great-West to further enhance the combined organizations network access position, underwriting effectiveness, delivery of quality member and provider service, and increased penetration of its membership base with differentiated product offerings.
    
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
Exhibit 1
 
 
 
Includes a pre-tax gain of $70 million for the third quarter of 2008, a pre-tax gain of $118 million for the nine months of 2008, a pre-tax loss of $11 million for the third quarter of 2007, and a pre-tax loss of $46 million for the nine months of 2007 from futures contracts entered into as part of a program to manage equity risks in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations.  CIGNA recorded corresponding offsets in benefits and expenses to adjust liabilities for reinsured guaranteed minimum death benefit contracts.
(1)
 
  Adjusted income (loss) from operations is segment earnings (loss) (income (loss) from continuing operations before net realized investment gains (losses)) excluding results of CIGNA's guaranteed minimum income benefits business and special items. See Exhibit 2 for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) from operations to segment earnings (loss), consolidated income from continuing operations and consolidated net income presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(2)
 
The nine months ended September 30, 2008  include a  pre-tax charge of $202 million ($131 million after-tax) on the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for  guaranteed minimum income benefit contracts recorded in the first quarter of 2008.  The nine months ended September 30, 2007 include a pre-tax charge of $86 million ($56 million after-tax) related to guaranteed minimum income benefits reserves recorded in the second quarter of 2007.
(3)
 
The nine months ended September 30, 2008 include a pre-tax charge of $80 million ($52 million after-tax) in Corporate for the second quarter of 2008 and a pre-tax charge of $37 million ($24 million after-tax) in Health Care for the first quarter of 2008, both of which related to litigation matters. Includes income tax benefit of $23 million for the third quarter and nine months of 2007 related to the completion of an IRS examination.
(4)
 
Exhibit 2
 
 
 
 
 
All earnings per share figures have been adjusted to reflect the three-for-one stock split of CIGNA's common shares effective June 4, 2007.
(1)
 
CIGNA measures the financial results of its segments using "segment earnings (loss)," which is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before net realized investment gains (losses). Adjusted income (loss) from operations is defined as segment earnings excluding special items, and beginning in 2008, also excludes results of CIGNA's guaranteed minimum income benefit business.  Prior period results have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation.
(2)
 
Income from continuing operations and net income are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
(3)
 
The nine months ended September 30, 2007 include a pre-tax charge of $86 million ($56 million after-tax) related to guaranteed minimum income benefits reserves recorded in the second quarter of 2007.
(4)
 
The nine months ended September 30, 2008 include a pre-tax charge of $80 million ($52 million after-tax) in Corporate for the second quarter of 2008 and a pre-tax charge of $37 million ($24 million after-tax) in Health Care for the first quarter of 2008, both of which related to litigation matters.
(5)
 
Includes income tax benefit of $23 million for the third quarter and nine months of 2007 related to the completion of an IRS examination.
(6)


