FILE:CI/CI-8K-20081120174215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
At the Companys Investor Day on November 21, 2008, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for the full year 2009 and outlook for medical membership for full year 2008 and 2009, as discussed on the Companys third quarter 2008 earnings conference call.  A transcript of the third quarter 2008 earnings call is available at . Company officials also expect to discuss their updated outlook for consolidated adjusted income from operations for the full year 2008, which is currently expected to be in the range of $920 to $950 million. This updated consolidated adjusted income from operations outlook for 2008 earnings 
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html
primarily reflects the Companys current fourth quarter outlook related to the run-off Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits book also known as Variable Annuity Death Benefits. Based on market conditions at the close of business on November 19, 2008, the Company currently estimates a fourth quarter loss related to this business of approximately $165 million after-tax versus a previous expectation of approximately $125 million after-tax.
 
CIGNA Investor Day 2008 is expected to begin at approximately 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation over the Internet via webcast by visiting and clicking on the Event Calendar link on the Investor Relations page.
http://www.cigna.com
To listen to this presentation live on the Internet, visit at least 15 minutes prior to the presentation (to download and install any necessary audio software).
http://www.cigna.com
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is consolidated income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.  Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses), (2) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to income from continuing operations.  Special items for the remainder of 2008 may include potential charges associated with cost reduction initiatives.  Information is not available for management to identify, other than these items, or reasonably estimate 2008 or 2009 special items.
 
While the Company is not able to estimate future realized investment gains or losses, based on market conditions at the close of business on October 31, 2008, the Company would have reported net realized losses of approximately $80 million after-tax which would impact net income.  This after-tax-loss includes approximately $15 million of credit related impairments, $62 million of market value declines in assets that may be available for sale that are also subject to future changes in market conditions as well as $3 million related to sales of fixed maturities.
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNAs consolidated adjusted income from operations and medical membership for full year 2008 and 2009 as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNAs productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2008 and 2009 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  The Company cautions that
 
 
actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
    
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


