FILE:CI/CI-8K-20091209172135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers, Election of Directors, Appointment of Certain Officers, Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 3, 2009, the Board of Directors of CIGNA Corporation, upon recommendation of the People Resources Committee (PRC), approved modifications to David Cordanis compensation arrangement, made as a result of the previously announced appointment and promotion of Mr. Cordani to chief executive officer, which will be effective December 25, 2009.   Under the modified arrangement, Mr. Cordani will receive an annual base salary of $1.0 million (effective December 25, 2009), an annual management incentive plan target of $1.5 million and a long-term incentive plan target of $7.5 million.  The changes to the incentive targets are effective January 1, 2010.  Consistent with past practice as described in CIGNA's 2009 proxy statement, Mr. Cordani will also receive as part of his promotion to chief executive officer, transitional Strategic Performance Units (SPUs) under the CIGNA Long-Term Incentive Plan of:  (1) 6,467 units for the 2008-2010 performance period; and (2) 10,347 units for the 2009  2011 performance period
.   
On December 9, 2009, H. Edward Hanway entered into a retirement agreement with the Company, effective December 25, 2009, the official date of his retirement as chief executive officer and chairman of the board.  Mr. Hanways agreement sets forth customary confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition, non-disparagement and release provisions.  The agreement further confirms Mr. Hanways rights to previously earned or vested benefits, principally consisting of accrued benefits under qualified and supplemental pension and deferred compensation plans in which Mr. Hanway participates.Pursuant to the CIGNA Long-Term Incentive Plan and terms of the original grants, Mr. Hanways stock options will vest upon his retirement and will expire at original terms.  The agreement provides for additional benefits consisting of payment in March 2010 of Mr. Hanways annual management incentive award in an amount equal to his 2009 annual incentive target of $2.5 million multiplied by the enterprise funding factor that the PRC will determine in February 2010.  As described in more detail in the Companys 2009 proxy statement, the enterprise funding factor could range from 0-200%.  The agreement also provides for pro-rata payouts of Mr. Hanways outstanding SPU awards based upon service through the date of retirement.  Based upon the methodology used in CIGNA's 2009 proxy statement, the value of these SPU awards at target ($75 per unit) would be approximately $10.7 million.  The actual payment and timing of payout will be determined by the PRC in accordance with the terms of the CIGNA Long-Term Incentive Plan and those terms are described in more detail in the Companys 2009 proxy statement.  Under the terms of the retirement agreement, Mr. Hanway will also be entitled to limited administrative support through December 31, 2010.
 
their
The form of Mr. Hanways retirement agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and the description of that agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached document.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                                 
                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
This Agreement and Release (Agreement) is dated December 9, 2009(Today), and is between H. Edward Hanway, [Address] (you), and CIGNA Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company).
 
You and the Company intend to be legally bound by the Agreement, and are entering into it in reliance on the promises made to each other in this Agreement.  Under the Agreement, your employment will end, and you and the Company agree to settle all issues concerning your employment and termination of employment.
  Your employment with the Company will end on account of your retirement on December 25, 2009 (the Termination Date).  Your formal job responsibilities will end on theTermination Date
1.
Your Termination Date.
 
.
2. 
Your Promises to the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
. 
3
Pay and Benefits Until and After Termination Date.
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
. 
4
Acknowledgment and Release of Claims.
 
 
7
 
 
For purposes of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of all Released Persons, you expressly acknowledge that this release is intended to include not only claims that are known, anticipated, or disclosed, but also claims that are unknown, unanticipated, or undisclosed.  You are aware that there may be discovery of claims or facts in addition to or different from those known or believed to be true with respect to the matters related herein.  Nevertheless, it is
 
 
8
 
your intention to fully, finally, and forever settle and release all such matters, and all claims related thereto, which now exist, may exist, or heretofore have existed between you and any Released Person, whether suspected or unsuspected.  In furtherance of such intention, this Agreement shall be and remain in effect as a full and complete release of all such matters, notwithstanding the discovery or existence of any additional or different claims or facts relative thereto.
You also understand that by signing this Agreement you are giving up any right to become, and you are promising not to consent to become, a member of any class in a case in which claims are asserted against any Released Person that are related in any way to your employment with or termination of employment from the Company, and that involve events that occurred on or before the date you signed this Agreement.  If, without your prior knowledge and consent, you are made a member of a class in any such proceeding, you will opt out of the class at the first opportunity afforded to you after learning of your inclusion.  In this regard, you will execute, without objection or delay, an opt-out form presented to you either by the court in which such proceeding is pending or by counsel for any Released Person who is made a defendant in any such proceeding.
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
.    Just because the Company is entering into this Agreement and paying you money, CIGNA is not admitting that it (or any Released Person) has done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.  Similarly, by entering into this Agreement, you are not admitting that you have done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.
5
No Admission of Wrongdoing.
  This Agreement is being made in Pennsylvania. Therefore, this Agreement, including the promises contained in paragraph 2.d. of this Agreement (the Covenants) will be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of Pennsylvania (without regard to its conflict of laws principles); provided, however, that your eligibility for, or the amount of any, employee benefits shall be subject to the terms of the applicable benefit plans and the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).  Additionally, you and CIGNA hereby agree that that any controversy or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Covenants shall be brought exclusively in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Federal Court) or in any Pennsylvania court where venue is appropriate and that has subject matter jurisdiction over the dispute (collectively, Pennsylvania Courts) if the Federal Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute or controversy.  Additionally, you and CIGNA expressly waive any defense of inconvenient forum and any other venue or jurisdiction-related defenses that you each might otherwise have in such a proceeding brought in the Federal Court or Pennsylvania Courts.
6.
Applicable Law and Exclusive Forum.
  Without in any way affecting the release in paragraph 4, any and all disagreements, disputes or claims listed below will be resolved exclusively by arbitration in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area; provided, however, that this Arbitration provision shall not apply to claims or actions that are based (in whole or in part) on or arise out of the Covenants.
7.
Arbitration.
Arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association, as modified by Company.  Copies of the Arbitration Policy and Rules and Procedures have been provided to you.  A legal judgment based upon the Arbitrators award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the matter.  Each party shall be liable for its own costs and expenses (including attorneys fees).  You and the Company agree to arbitrate anything:
 
 
10
 
  This Agreement is intended to be the complete, entire and final agreement between you and the Company.  It fully replaces all earlier agreements or understandings; however, it does not replace the terms of any employee benefit plan or terms included in any stock option or restricted stock grant.  Neither you nor the Company has relied upon any other statement, agreement or contract, written or oral, in deciding to enter into this Agreement.  Any amendment to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by both you and the Company.  Any waiver by any person of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective only if in writing, specifically referring to the provision being waived and signed by the person against whom enforcement of the waiver is being sought.  No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective as to any other provision of this Agreement except to the extent specifically provided in an effective written waiver.  Except as provided in Section 11 of this Agreement, if any provision or portion this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable in a legal forum with competent jurisdiction to so determine, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law and the invalid or unenforceable provisions or portions shall be deemed to be reformed so as to give maximum legal effect to the agreements of the parties contained herein.
8.
Final and Entire Agreement.
.    By signing this Agreement, you admit and agree that:
9
Your Understanding.
 
 
  You have seven calendar days from the date you sign this Agreement to revoke and cancel it.  To do that, a clear, written cancellation letter, signed by you,
10.
Revoking the Agreement.
 
 
11
 
must be received by Kristen Gorodetzer, CIGNA Corporation, 1601 Chestnut Street TL18K, Philadelphia, PA, 19192 before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the seventh calendar day following the date you sign this Agreement.  The Agreement will have no force and effect until the end of that seventh day; provided that, during such seven-day period, the Company shall not be able to revoke this Agreement or cancel it.
You understand and agree that the Company's main reason for entering into this Agreement is to avoid lawsuits and other litigation.  Therefore, if any legal action covered by this Agreement (other than claims excluded from the release provisions of this Agreement) is started by you (or by someone else on your behalf) against any Released Person, you agree to withdraw such proceeding or claim with prejudice.
11.
If Legal Action Is Started by You. 
If you fail to withdraw such proceeding or claim (or fail to opt out of a class action that includes you) within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the Released Person requesting that you withdraw such proceeding or claim (or in the case of a class action, within 30 days of the later of such request or your being given the opportunity to opt out), then in addition to any other equitable or legal relief that the Company may be entitled to:
You represent that as of Today you have not assigned to any other party, and agree not to assign, any claim released by you under this Agreement.  (If you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary, the Company reserves its right to recover from you its attorneys fees and/or costs in defending that claim, at the conclusion of that action.)
Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction or arbitrator that a release or waiver of claims provided for by paragraph 4 above is illegal, void or unenforceable, the Company or you, as the case may be, may require the other party to execute promptly a release that is legal and enforceable and does not extend to Claims not released under paragraph 4.  If you fail to execute such a release within a reasonable period of time, then this Agreement shall be null and void from Today on, and any money paid to you by the Company after Today under paragraph 3 (except sub-paragraphs 3.a and 3.g) and not previously returned to the Company, will be treated as an overpayment.  You will have to repay that overpayment to the Company with interest, compounded annually at the rate of 6%.  However, the repayment provision in this paragraph does not apply to legal actions in which you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary.
 
 
12
 
This paragraph 11 does not apply to any thing of value given to you for which you actually performed services and by law you are entitled to receive.
This paragraph 11 is not intended to prevent you from instituting legal action for the sole purpose of enforcing this Agreement or from filing a charge with, or participating in an investigation conducted by, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any comparable state human rights agency; provided however, that you expressly waive and relinquish any right you might have to recover damages or other relief, whether equitable or legal, in any such proceeding concerning events or actions that arose on or before the date you signed this Agreement.  You agree to inform the EEOC, any other governmental agency, any court or any arbitration organization that takes jurisdiction over any matter relating to your employment or termination of employment that this Agreement constitutes a full and final settlement by you of all claims released hereunder.
. The Company represents and warrants that (a) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been fully and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action (including, without limitation, by any action required to be taken by the board of directors of the Company or any affiliate, any committee of such board or any committee or designee administering the applicable CIGNA plans); (b) the officer signing this Agreement on behalf of the Company is duly authorized to do so; (c) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement does not violate any applicable law, regulation, order, judgment or decree or any agreement, plan or corporate governance document to which the Company or any affiliate is a party or by which it is bound; and (d) upon execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties, it shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally.
12.
Representations
 
.  Except as provided below, any notice, request or other communication given in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given (a) when personally delivered to the recipient or (b) provided that a written acknowledgement of receipt is obtained, three days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or two days after being sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier, to the address specified in this paragraph 13 (or such other address as the recipient shall have specified by ten days advance written notice given in accordance with this paragraph 13).  Such communication shall be addressed to you as follows (unless such address is changed in accordance with this paragraph 13):
13.
Notices
 
H. Edward Hanway
[Address]
and to the Company or CIGNA as follows:
 
 
13
 
Kristen Gorodetzer
CIGNA Corporation
1601 Chestnut Street TL18K
Philadelphia, PA, 19192
However, CIGNA and you may deliver any notices or other communications related to any employee benefit or compensation plans, programs or arrangements in the same manner that similar communications are delivered to or from other current or former employees, including by electronic transmission and first class mail.
           .  This Agreement will be binding on and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors, heirs (in your case) and permitted assigns.  No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred without your prior written consent, except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale, liquidation or other disposition of the assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to the Company (or in connection with a purchase of Company assets, assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company under this Agreement), either contractually or as a matter of law.  Your rights or obligations under this Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by you, without the Companys prior written consent, other than your rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law or pursuant to the terms of the applicable plan, program, grant or agreement of CIGNA or the Company.  In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, references in this Agreement to you shall be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to your legal representative, or, where appropriate, to your beneficiary or beneficiaries.
14.
Successors and Assigns
           .  You agree that CIGNA shall, in addition to any other relief available at law or equity, be entitled to injunctive relief and/or to have the restrictive covenants contained in paragraph 2 specifically enforced by a court of competent jurisdiction (without the requirement to post a bond), it being agreed that any breach or threatened breach of the restrictive covenants set forth in paragraph 2 would cause irreparable injury to CIGNA and that monetary damages alone would not provide an adequate remedy.  The remedies contained herein are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies CIGNA may have at law or in equity.
15.
Injunctive Relief
           This Agreement is not effective or binding on either party until fully signed by both parties.
16.
The persons named below have signed this Agreement on the dates shown below:
14
 
 
 
15


