FILE:CI/CI-8K-20090105171956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.05 .
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
At its Investor Day held on November 21, 2008, the Company announced that
it was conducting a comprehensive review of its ongoing businesses with a particular emphasis on reducing operating expenses in its HealthCare segment.
As a result of this review, during the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company committed to a plan to reduce its operating costs in order to meet the challenges and opportunities presented by the current market environment.  The Company anticipates the plan will be substantially completed by the end of 2009.
CIGNA anticipates the fourth quarter 2008 after-tax charge, which includes cash and non-cash items, related to the plan to be in the range of $30 million to $40 million, approximately 80% of which is related to severance and other related costs resulting from reductions of approximately 1,100 positions in its workforce and the remainder resulting from consolidation of facilities.  The anticipated cash outlay of this charge is estimated to be in the range of $30 million to $35 million, after-tax.
The Companys review is ongoing and there may be additional charges in 2009.   CIGNA will amend this Form 8-K as further details related to the plan are finalized and when further amounts related to additional charges can be estimated.
CIGNA will discuss the impact of this plan on consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for the full year 2009 as well as the anticipated annualized savings from the plan on the Companys fourth quarter 2008 earnings call scheduled for Thursday, February 5, 2009.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, CIGNAs productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  The Company cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Chris Curran, 215.470-2414
Chris
.curran@cigna.com
 CIGNA (NYSE: CI) announced today several actions in response to the economic downturn that will strengthen the companys competitive position, including the reduction in its global workforce by approximately 1,100 positions, around 4 percent of the companys employees, and the planned consolidation of certain real estate locations.  As a result of these actions, CIGNA expects to incur approximately $30 -40 million, after tax, in cost reduction charges in the fourth quarter of 2008.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 5, 2009
"Given the unprecedented economic situation we and our customers are facing, these actions are essential to ensure we can meet their needs for high value, cost effective products and services," said H. Edward Hanway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CIGNA Corporation.  "Decisions like these are difficult and never made lightly, but they are necessary given the current environment."
The job eliminations are anticipated to be in large part complete by mid-year 2009 and all those impacted by these actions will be eligible for severance benefits and outplacement support.
CIGNA will provide more information on its cost reduction charge during its fourth quarter earnings call currently scheduled for Feb 5, 2009.
About CIGNA
CIGNA (NYSE:CI), a global health service company, is dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and security.  CIGNA Corporation's operating subsidiaries provide an integrated suite of medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits, as well as group life, accident and disability insurance, to approximately 47 million people throughout the United States and around the world. To learn more about CIGNA, visit .
www.cigna.com
 


