FILE:CI/CI-8K-20090609162507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01
 
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
On June 9, 2009 and for the remainder of the week, Company officials expect to participate in telephone calls and meetings with investors and analysts.  During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2009, which remain in the range of $1.02 billion to $1.08 billion, excluding any future impact of the Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits book of business also known as Variable Annuity Death Benefits (VADBe).  Company officials also expect to reaffirm the outlook for medical membership of a decline by 3% to 4% for full year 2009.  This outlook reflects sales and persistency expectations that are consistent with those discussed on the Companys first quarter 2009 earnings conference call, and a higher than anticipated level of disenrollment due to the economic environment.  There could be pressure on this medical membership outlook if the economic conditions continue to deteriorate.  A transcript of the first quarter 2009 earnings call is available at http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html. 
Some of these meetings will be at the Goldman Sachs 30th Annual Global Healthcare Conference, where CIGNA will make a presentation on June 10, 2009 that is expected to begin at approximately 9:40 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, analysts, and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation over the Internet via webcast by visiting and going to the Event Calendar.
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/index.html
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is consolidated income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.
In the 2009 earnings outlook discussed on the Companys first quarter 2009 earnings conference call, management assumed that VADBe would be approximately break-even for the remaining nine months of 2009.  This assumption reflects managements view that the long-term reserve assumptions are appropriate and that equity market conditions and volatility are expected to return to more normal levels for the balance of the year.Investors are strongly encouraged to review the factors cited in the Cautionary Statement included in this report and the sensitivities discussed in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 for further details and information.
 
Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) or (2) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to income from continuing operations.  Potential losses or gains related to the GMIB business, as well as investment impairments (both of which are sensitive to equity market and interest rate movements), could either adversely or favorably impact the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial condition, and could impact the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries as well as their dividend paying capabilities.
Additional special items for 2009 may include potential impacts associated with CIGNAs continuing cost reduction initiative and will include a one-time benefit of approximately $40 million, pre-tax, related to managements decision to freeze the CIGNA Pension Plan and CIGNA Supplemental Pension Plan effective July 1, 2009.  Other than these items, information is not available for management to identify or reasonably estimate additional 2009 special items.
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNAs consolidated adjusted income from operations (excluding VADBe) and medical membership for full year 2009 as of the date of
 
 
 
 
this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2009 results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
 
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  The Company cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, our Form 10-Q for the quarter
 
 
 
 
ended March 31, 2009 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


