FILE:CI/CI-8K-20100426172451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
CIGNA issued a news release announcing that, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, on April 23, 2010, the Board of Directors appointed Joseph Sullivan as a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation effective April 27, 2010.
As a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation, Mr. Sullivan is eligible to participate in the CIGNA Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Program, filed as exhibit 10.4 to CIGNA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; the Deferred Compensation Plan of 2005 for Directors of CIGNA Corporation, filed as exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007; and the CIGNA Corporation Directors Equity Plan (subject to shareholder approval of the Plan), filed as appendix B to CIGNA's proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.
The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1  
 
 
 
 
Joseph P. Sullivan Joins CIGNA's Board of Directors
 
, April 26, 2010 - CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) announced today that Joseph P. Sullivan, former chairman and chief executive officer of Protocare, Inc., a clinical trials and pharmaceutical industry consulting firm, will join CIGNA Corporation's board of directors effective April 27, 2010.  He will be a member of the corporate governance committee and the people resources committee.
PHILADELPHIA
 
Sullivan has been a private investor since 2003. He currently serves as a director of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., HCP, Inc. and Maguire Properties.  He is also chairman of the board of advisors of RAND Health, a non-profit institution dedicated to emerging health policy issues.
 
Were really pleased to have Joe join our board. He brings a wealth of experience and knowledge in health care and health policy, an appreciation for our commitment to health improvement and wellness, and a terrific understanding of what it takes to be a growth company, said David M. Cordani, CIGNA president and chief executive officer.
 
Sullivan holds both a bachelor of science degree and a juris doctor degree from the University of Minnesota.  He also earned a master of business administration from Harvard Business School.
 
More information on CIGNA's board of directors is available at:
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/governance/index.html
 
About CIGNA
CIGNA (NYSE:CI), a global health service company, is dedicated to helping people improve their health, well being and sense of security. CIGNA Corporation's operating subsidiaries provide an integrated suite of medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits, as well as group life, accident and disability insurance, to approximately 46 million people throughout the United States and around the world. To learn more about CIGNA, visit .  To sign up for email alerts or an RSS feed of company news, log on to . Also, follow us on Twitter: and visit CIGNAs YouTube channel at
www.cigna.com
http://newsroom.cigna.com/rss/
@cignatweets
http://www.youtube.com/cignatv
 
 


