FILE:CI/CI-8K-20100901164257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
CIGNA Corporation announced that it has (1) entered into a separation agreement with Annmarie T. Hagan in connection with leaving her position as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective September 1, 2010; and (2) appointed Thomas A. McCarthy, 53, the Companys acting Chief Financial Officer, effective September 1, 2010.  A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Hagans resignation and Mr. McCarthys appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.  Ms. Hagan's departure was not caused by any dispute or disagreement over the Company's accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosures, ethics policy or otherwise.
Ms. Hagans agreement includes non-competition and non-solicitation covenants made by Ms. Hagan as well as various other commitments, covenants and waivers.  In addition, the agreement provides for benefits consisting of:  (1) the payment of one years salary; (2) cash payment for the restricted stock she was previously granted; (3) payouts under annual and long-term incentive arrangements; and (4) miscellaneous insurance and outplacement benefits.  The aggregate value of these benefits is approximately $3.4 million. A copy of Ms. Hagans separation agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and the description of that agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached document.
On August 30, 2010, the People Resources Committee (PRC) of CIGNA's Board of Directors approved an incentive award in the form of restricted stock and a cash bonus to be payable in 2011 for Mr. McCarthy in connection with his assumption of additional responsibilities as acting Chief Financial Officer.   The PRC granted Mr. McCarthy a restricted stock award of 13,926 shares of CIGNA common stock with a grant date value of $450,000.  This award was made pursuant to the terms of the CIGNA Long-Term Incentive Plan.  The restricted stock will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.  Mr. McCarthy will also receive a cash bonus of no less than $300,000 and no more than $450,000 so long as he continues to serve as acting Chief Financial Officer until the appointment of the Chief Financial Offi cer.  Pursuant to the PRCs approval, the specific amount of the cash bonus within this range will be determined by the Chief Executive Officer based on Mr. McCarthys performance as acting Chief Financial Officer.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement and Release (Agreement) is dated August 31, 2010 (Today), and is between Annmarie T. Hagan, [Address] (you), and CIGNA Corporation, a Delawarecorporation (the Company).
 
You and the Company intend to be legally bound by the Agreement, and are entering into it in reliance on the promises made to each other in this Agreement.  Under the Agreement, your employment will end, and you and the Company agree to settle all issues concerning your employment and termination of employment.
             Your employment with the Company will end on September 10, 2010 (the Termination Date).  Your formal job responsibilities will end on September 1, 2010;however, you agree to be available until your Termination Date to assist with transition and other matters, as deemed necessary.
1.
Your Termination Date.
 
2.           Your Promises to the Company.
 
1
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
.           
3
Your Severance Arrangements.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
.           
4
Acknowledgment and Release of Claims.
 
8
 
For purposes of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of all Released Persons, you expressly acknowledge that this release is intended to include not only claims that are known, anticipated, or disclosed, but also claims that are unknown, unanticipated, or undisclosed.  You are aware that there may be discovery of claims or facts in addition to or different from those known or believed to be true with respect to the matters related herein.  Nevertheless, it is your intention to fully, finally, and forever settle and release all such matters, and all claims related thereto, which now exist, may exist, or heretofore have existed between you and any Released Person, whether suspected or unsuspected.  In furtherance of such intention, this Agreement shall be and remain in effect as a
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
.              Just because the Company is entering into this Agreement and paying you money, the Company is not admitting that it (or any Released Person)
5
No Admission of Wrongdoing.
has done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.  Similarly, by entering into this Agreement, you are not admitting that you have done anything wrong or violated any law, rule, order, policy, procedure, or contract, express or implied, or otherwise incurred any liability.
             This Agreement is being made in Pennsylvania. Therefore, this Agreement (including the Covenants contained in paragraphs 2.f. and 2.g. of this Agreement) will be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without regard to its conflict of laws principles); provided, however, that your eligibility for, or the amount of any, employee benefits shall be subject to the terms of the applicable benefit plans and the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).  Additionally, you and CIGNA hereby agree that that any controversy o r proceeding arising out of or relating to the Covenants shall be brought exclusively in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Federal Court) or in any Pennsylvania court where venue is appropriate and that has subject matter jurisdiction over the dispute (collectively, Pennsylvania Courts) if the Federal Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute or controversy.  You and CIGNA further agree that the Pennsylvania Courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any such controversy or proceeding, and that you each irrevocably waive any and all other rights of jurisdiction or venue that you or CIGNA might otherwise have with regard to claims or controversies arising under (or relating to) the Covenants.  Additionally, you and CIGNA expressly waive any defense of inconvenient forum and any other venue or jurisdiction-related defenses that you each might otherwise have in such a proceeding brought in the Pen nsylvania Courts.
6.
Applicable Law and Exclusive Forum.
             Without in any way affecting the release in paragraph 4, any and all disagreements, disputes or claims listed below will be resolved exclusively by arbitration in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area; provided, however, that this Arbitration provision shall not apply to claims or actions that are based (in whole or in part) on any alleged breach of any of the Covenants contained in paragraphs 2.f. and 2.g. of this Agreement or that otherwise are based on or arise out of the Covenants.
7.
Arbitration.
Arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association, as modified by Company.  Copies of the Arbitration Policy and Rules and Procedures have been provided to you.  A legal judgment based upon the Arbitrators award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the matter.  Each party shall be liable for its own costs and expenses (including attorneys fees).  You and the Company agree to arbitrate anything:
 
11
 
b.           that involves your employment with Company or the termination of that employment, including any disputes arising under local, state or federal statutes or common law (if for any reason your release and waiver under paragraph 4 is found to be unenforceable or inapplicable).
              This Agreement is intended to be the complete, entire and final agreement between you and the Company.  It fully replaces all earlier agreements or understandings; however, it does not replace the terms of any employee benefit plan or terms included in any stock option or restricted stock grant.  Neither you nor the Company has relied upon any other statement, agreement or contract, written or oral, in deciding to enter into this Agreement.  Any amendment to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by both you and the Company.  Any waiver by any person of any provision of th is Agreement shall be effective only if in writing, specifically referring to the provision being waived and signed by the person against whom enforcement of the waiver is being sought.  No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective as to any other provision of this Agreement except to the extent specifically provided in an effective written waiver.  If any provision or portion this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable in a legal forum with competent jurisdiction to so determine, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law and the invalid or unenforceable provisions or portions shall be deemed to be reformed so as to give maximum legal effect to the agreements of the parties contained herein.
8.
Final and Entire Agreement.
.
.                By signing this Agreement, you admit and agree that:
9
Your Understanding.
a.           You have read this Agreement.
 
12
 
              You have seven calendar days from the date you sign this Agreement to revoke and cancel it.  To do that, a clear, written cancellation letter, signed by you, must be received by Kristen Gorodetzer, CIGNA Corporation, 1601 Chestnut Street TL18K, Philadelphia, PA, 19192 before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the seventh calendar day following the date you sign this Agreement.  The Agreement will have no force and effect until the end of that seventh day; provided that, during such seven-day period, the Company shall not be able to revoke this Agreement or cancel it.
10.
Revoking the Agreement.
             You understand and agree that the Company's main reason for entering into this Agreement is to avoid lawsuits and other litigation.  Therefore, if any legal action covered by this Agreement (other than claims excluded from the release provisions of this Agreement) is started by you (or by someone else on your behalf) against any Released Person, you agree to withdraw such proceeding or claim with prejudice.
11.
If Legal Action Is Started by You.   
If you fail to withdraw such proceeding or claim within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the Released Person requesting that you withdraw such proceeding or claim (or in the case of a class action, within 30 days of the later of such request or your being given the opportunity to opt out), then in addition to any other equitable or legal relief that the Company may be entitled to:
You represent that as of Today you have not assigned to any other party, and agree not to assign, any claim released by you under this Agreement.  (If you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary, the Company reserves its right to recover from you its attorneys fees and/or costs in defending that claim, at the conclusion of that action.)
Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction or arbitrator that a release or waiver of claims provided for by paragraph 4 above is illegal, void or unenforceable, the Company or you, as the case may be, may require the other party to execute promptly a release that is legal
 
13
 
and enforceable and does not extend to Claims not released under paragraph 4.  If you fail to execute such a release within a reasonable period of time, then this Agreement shall be null and void from Today on, and any money paid to you by the Company after Today under paragraph 3 (except sub-paragraphs 3.a and 3.g) and not previously returned to the Company, will be treated as an overpayment.  You will have to repay that overpayment to the Company with interest, compounded annually at the rate of 6%.  However, the repayment provision in this paragraph does not apply to legal actions in which you claim that your release of ADEA claims was not knowing and voluntary.
This paragraph 11 does not apply to any thing of value given to you for which you actually performed services and by law you are entitled to receive.
This paragraph 11 is not intended to prevent you from instituting legal action for the sole purpose of enforcing this Agreement or from filing a charge with, or participating in an investigation conducted by, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any comparable state human rights agency; provided however, that you expressly waive and relinquish any right you might have to recover damages or other relief, whether equitable or legal, in any such proceeding concerning events or actions that arose on or before the date you signed this Agreement.  You agree to inform the EEOC, any other governmental agency, any court or any arbitration organization that takes jurisdiction over any matter relating to your employment or termination of employment that this Agreement constitutes a full and final settlement by you of all claims released hereunder.
           . The Company represents and warrants that (a) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been fully and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action (including, without limitation, by any action required to be taken by the board of directors of the Company or any affiliate, any committee of such board or any committee or designee administering the applicable CIGNA plans); (b) the officer signing this Agreement on behalf of the Company is duly authorized to do so; (c) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement does not violate any app licable law, regulation, order, judgment or decree or any agreement, plan or corporate governance document to which the Company or any affiliate is a party or by which it is bound; and (d) upon execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties, it shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally.
12.
Representations
 
           .  Except as provided below, any notice, request or other communication given in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given (a) when personally delivered to the recipient or (b) provided that a written acknowledgement of receipt is obtained, three days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or two days after being sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier, to the address specified in this paragraph 13 (or such other address as the recipient shall have specified by ten days advance
13.
Notices
 
14
 
written notice given in accordance with this paragraph 13).  Such communication shall be addressed to you as follows (unless such address is changed in accordance with this paragraph 13):
 
Annmarie T. Hagan
[Address]
 
and to the Company or CIGNA as follows:
Kristen Gorodetzer
CIGNA Corporation
1601 Chestnut Street TL18K
Philadelphia, PA, 19192
However, CIGNA and you may deliver any notices or other communications related to any employee benefit or compensation plans, programs or arrangements in the same manner that similar communications are delivered to or from other current or former employees, including by electronic transmission and first class mail.
           .  This Agreement will be binding on and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors, heirs (in your case) and permitted assigns.  No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred without your prior written consent, except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale, liquidation or other disposition of the assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to the Company (or in connection with a purchase of C ompany assets, assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company under this Agreement), either contractually or as a matter of law.  Your rights or obligations under this Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by you, without the Companys prior written consent, other than your rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law or pursuant to the terms of the applicable plan, program, grant or agreement of CIGNA or the Company.  In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, references in this Agreement to you shall be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to your legal representative, or, where appropriate, to your beneficiary or beneficiaries.
14.
Successors and Assigns
           .  You and CIGNA agree that, in addition to any other relief available at law or equity, the parties shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief and/or to have the restrictive covenants contained in paragraph 2 specifically enforced by a court of competent jurisdiction (without the requirement to post a bond), it being agreed that any breach or threatened breach of the restrictive covenants set forth in paragraph 2 would cause irreparable injury and that monetary damages alone would not provide an adequate remedy.  The remedies contained herein
15.
Injunctive Relief
 
15
 
are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the parties may have at law or in equity.
           This Agreement is not effective or binding on either party until fully signed by both parties.
16.
The persons named below have signed this Agreement on the dates shown below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACT:        
CIGNA Corporation
Gene Reineke, Media Relations, 215.761.6046
 
Gene.Reineke@cigna.com
 
PHILADELPHIA, September 1, 2010 - CIGNA Corporation (NYSE:CI) David M. Cordani, president and chief executive officer of CIGNA Corporation, today announced the appointment of Thomas A. McCarthy, currently CIGNAs vice president and treasurer, to the position of acting chief financial officer, effective immediately.   As acting chief financial officer, McCarthy will replace Annmarie T. Hagan who will be leaving her position as executive vice president and chief financial officer effective September 1, 2010.
 
CIGNA is appreciative of Annmaries many years of dedicated service to the company.  She has made meaningful contributions to the growth and success of the company as part of the senior management team.  We wish Annmarie every success in her future endeavors, said David M. Cordani, CIGNA president and chief executive officer.
 
In taking on the role of acting chief financial officer, McCarthy will draw from many years of experience and success at CIGNA.  Since 2003, he has been responsible for CIGNA's strategy and corporate development function, which includes mergers and acquisitions and corporate risk management.   In 2008, McCarthy was also named treasurer and added responsibility for corporate finance, capital management and the treasury operations, and in 2009, he added responsibility for the tax function.  A graduate of The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, McCarthy holds an MBA from Carnegie Mellon University.
McCarthy began his career at CIGNA in 1980 and served in various financial and underwriting positions.   In 1999, he joined Kemper, a property and casualty insurer, as senior vice president, a role he held until 2003, when he rejoined CIGNA. 
 
We are assigning a proven veteran performer to this key position while we complete our search for a permanent chief financial officer. 
Tom has a wide range of technical and operational finance experiences, including strong business partnering and leadership capabilities that will serve him well as acting chief financial officer.  I am confident that Tom and the finance team will maintain our focus on delivering customer and shareholder value, said Cordani.
 
 
 
 
CIGNA
Page 2
 
About CIGNA
 
 
CIGNA (NYSE: CI) is a global health service and financial company dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and sense of security. CIGNA Corporation's operating subsidiaries in the United States provide an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits, as well as group life, accident and disability insurance. Outside the U.S. CIGNA provides employers, affinity groups and individuals access to quality health care and related financial protection programs. CIGNA offers insurance products in 27 countries and jurisdictions and has approximately 60 million customer relationships throughout the United States and around the world, including expatriates in virtually every country. To learn more about CIGNA, visit . To sign up for email alerts or an RSS feed of company news, log on to
www.cigna.com
http://newsroom.cigna.com/section_display.cfm?section_id=18
 
 
 


