FILE:CI/CI-8K-20100805060345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR    240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 Item 2.02  .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 5, 2010, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the second quarter 2010.  The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
                      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CIGNA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2010 RESULTS
 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported shareholders net income of $294 million, or $1.06 per share, for the second quarter of 2010 compared with shareholders net income of $435 million, or $1.58 per share, for the same period last year.  Shareholders net income included a loss of $0.37 per share in the second quarter of 2010 and income of $0.40 per share for the same period last year from results of the GMIB businessprimarily related to interest rate movements. Second quarter 2009 results also included two special items;a benefit of $30 million after-tax, or $0.11 per share, related to the decision to freeze the CIGNA Pension Plan and CIGNA Supplemental Pension Plan and an after-tax charge of $9 million, or $0.04 per share, which represented incremental actions related to CIGNA's previously announced cost reduction plan.
PHILADELPHIA, August 5, 2010
1
,
5
 
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations for the second quarter of 2010 was $384 million, or $1.38 per share, compared to adjusted income from operations of $313 million, or $1.14 per share, for the same period last year.
2
2
"Our second quarter 2010 results demonstrate that we continue to effectively execute our global growth strategy, said David M. Cordani, President and Chief Executive Officer of CIGNA Corporation.  Our focus is on delivering value for our customers and shareholders.  We do that by listening, understanding, and helping our customers and by leveraging our diverse portfolio of solutions that are aligned with our mission to help people around the world improve their health, well-being and sense of security.  Im proud of what weve accomplished and now look forward to continuing to deliver on our mission and maintaining our positive trajectory.
 
 
 
 
2
 
CONSOLIDATED HIGHLIGHTS
 
The following is a reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF SEGMENT RESULTS
Health Care
Financial Results (dollars in millions, medical membership in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Disability and Life
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
5
 
International
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
Other Segments
 
 
 
 
6
 
OUTLOOK
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNA's 2010 consolidated and segment adjusted income from operations as of the date of this release.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this release for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
,
2
3
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement inclusive of the Investment Supplement are available on CIGNAs website in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html).  A link to the conference call, on which management will review second quarter 2010 results and discuss full year 2010 outlook is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/events.html).
 
 
 
7
 
Notes:
Second Quarter 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys productivity initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2010 and beyond results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  The Company cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
9
 
    
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 1
 
Includes pre-tax gains of $92 million and $47 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, and pre-tax losses of $188 million and $71 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, from futures contracts entered into as part of a dynamic hedge program to manage equity risks in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations. CIGNA recorded corresponding offsets in benefits and expenses to adjust liabilities for reinsured guaranteed minimum death benefit contracts.
(1)
 
  Adjusted income (loss) from operations is segment earnings (loss) (shareholders' income (loss) from continuing operations before net realized investment gains (losses)) excluding results of CIGNA's guaranteed minimum income benefits business and special items. See Exhibit 2 for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) from operations to segment earnings (loss), shareholders' income from continuing operations and shareholders' net income presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
The three and six months ended June 30, 2009 reflects a  pre-tax curtailment benefit of $46 million ($30 million after-tax) resulting from the freeze of CIGNA's pension plans.
(3)
          - Pre-tax benefit of $39 million ($25 million after-tax) in Health Care; pre-tax benefit of $6 million ($4 million after-tax) in Disability and Life; and pre-tax benefit of $1 million ($1 million after-tax) in International.
 
 
The three and six months ended June 30, 2009 includes a pre-tax charge of $14 million ($9 million after-tax) related to the previously announced cost reduction plan.
(4)
          - Pre-tax charge of $13 million ($8 million after-tax) in Health Care and a pre-tax charge of $1 million ($1 million after-tax) in Disability and  Life.
 
The six months ended June 30, 2009 includes a net tax benefit of $20 million resulting from the completion of the 2005 and 2006 IRS examinations.
(5)
          -After-tax benefit of $1 million in Health Care; after-tax benefit of $5 million in Disability and Life; after-tax benefit of $1 million in International; a pre-tax charge of $9 million ($1 million after-tax benefit) in Other Operations; and an after-tax benefit of $12 million in Corporate.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
() CIGNA measures the financial results of its segments using "segment earnings (loss)," which is defined as shareholders' income (loss) from continuing operations before net realized investment gains (losses). Adjusted income (loss) from operations is defined as segment earnings excluding special items and results of CIGNA's guaranteed minimum income benefit business.
1
 
() The three and six months ended June 30, 2009 reflects a pre-tax curtailment benefit of $46 million ($30 million after-tax) resulting from the freeze of CIGNA's pension plans.
2
 
() The three and six months ended June 30, 2009 includes a pre-tax charge of $14 million ($9 million after-tax) related to the previously announced cost reduction plan.
3
 
() The six months ended June 30, 2009 includes a net tax benefit of $20 million resulting from the completion of the 2005 and 2006 IRS examinations.
4
 
() Shareholders' income from continuing operations and shareholders' net income are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
5
 
 
 
 


