FILE:CI/CI-8K-20110505060109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR    240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 5, 2011, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the first quarter 2011.  The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Index to Exhibits

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported first quarter 2011 results, that included consolidated revenue growth and strong earnings growth from each of our ongoing businesses, reflecting continued effective execution of our strategy.
PHILADELPHIA, May 5, 2011
Consolidated revenues increased 8%, excluding the effect from exiting Medicare IPFFS.  Revenues reflect premium and fee increases of 6% in Health Care, 4% in Disability and Life, and 32% in International, driven by continued growth in our targeted customer segments.
1
1
CIGNA reported shareholders net income of $429 million, or $1.57 per share, for the first quarter of 2011, compared with shareholders net income of $283 million, or $1.02 per share, for the first quarter of 2010.  Shareholders net income for the first quarter of 2011 included a special item which generated income of $0.09 per share.
1
1
1
4
CIGNA's adjusted income from operations for the first quarter of 2011 was $375 million, or $1.37 per share, compared with $281 million, or $1.01 per share, for the first quarter of 2010.  Adjusted income from operations in the quarter included prior year favorable claim development in the Health Care business of $22 million after-tax, or $0.08 per share, compared to $4 million after-tax, or $0.01 per share, in 2010.
1
1
"Our first quarter results represent a strong start towards achieving our full year 2011 goals, with good revenue growth and strong earnings contributions from each of our ongoing businesses, said David M. Cordani, President and Chief Executive Officer of CIGNA Corporation.  These results reflect continued effective execution of our strategy for the benefit of our customers, health care partners and shareholders.
 
 
 
 
The following table includes highlights of results anda reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders net income (dollars in millions, except per share amounts; membership in thousands):
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted segment earnings (loss) are adjusted income (loss) from operations, as applicable, for each segment (see ).
1
Exhibit 2
Health Care
This segment includes medical and specialty health care products and services provided on guaranteed cost, retrospectively experience-rated and service-only funding bases.  Specialty health care includes behavioral, dental, disease and medical management, stop-loss, and pharmacy-related products and services.
Financial Results (dollars in millions, membership in thousands):
 
 
 
 
4
This segment includes CIGNAs group disability, life, and accident insurance operations that are managed separately from the health care business.
Financial Results (dollars in millions):
This segment includes CIGNAs supplemental health, life, and accident insurance and expatriate benefits businesses operating in select international markets.
Financial Results (dollars in millions, membership and policies in thousands):
 
 
 
Adjusted segment earnings (losses) for CIGNA's remaining operations are presented below (after-tax, dollars in millions):
 
 
 
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNA's 2011 consolidated and segment adjusted income from operations as of the date of this release.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this release for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates.
,
1
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Financial Supplement inclusive of the Investment Supplement are available on CIGNAs website in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html).  A link to the conference call, on which management will review first quarter 2011 and discuss full year 2011 outlook  is available in the Investor Relations section of CIGNAs website (http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/events.html).
Notes:
Beginning January 1, 2011, CIGNA no longer offers Medicare IPFFS.  First quarter 2010 consolidated revenues and Health Care premiums and fees included approximately $200 million of premiums related to Medicare IPFFS.  Including Medicare IPFFS, Health Care premiums and fees for first quarter 2011 were flat compared to first quarter 2010.
First Quarter 2011
Fourth Quarter 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys strategic initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2011 and beyond results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
    
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
() Includes pre-tax losses of $39 million and $45 million for the periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, from futures and swaps contracts entered into as part of a dynamic hedge program to manage equity and growth interest rate risks in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations. CIGNA recorded related offsets in Benefits and Expenses to adjust liabilities for reinsured guaranteed minimum death benefit and guaranteed minimum income benefit contracts.
1
() Adjusted income (loss) from operations is segment earnings (loss) (shareholders' net income (loss) before net realized investment gains (losses)) excluding results of CIGNA's guaranteed minimum income benefits business and special items. See for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) from operations to segment earnings (loss) and shareholders' net income presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
2
Exhibit 2
() The three months ended March 31, 2011 includes a net tax benefit of $24 million resulting from the completion of the 2007 and 2008 IRS examinations.
3
    - After-tax benefit of $1 million in Health Care; after-tax benefit of $5 million in Disability and Life; after-tax benefit of $4 million ($9 million pre-tax charge) in Other Operations and an after-tax benefit of $14 million in Corporate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


