FILE:CI/CI-8K-20110726171337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
CIGNA issued a news release announcing that, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, on July 26, 2011, the Board of Directors appointed Eric J. Foss as a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation effective the same date.    He will be a member of the audit committee and corporate governance committee.
 
As a non-employee director of CIGNA Corporation, Mr. Foss is eligible to participate in the CIGNA Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Program, amended and restated effective January 1, 2011, filed as exhibit 10.3 to CIGNA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; the Deferred Compensation Plan of 2005 for Directors of CIGNA Corporation (Amended and Restated Effective April 28, 2010), filed as exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; and the CIGNA Corporation Directors Equity Plan filed as exhibit 10.3 to CIGNAs Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010.
The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                           

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
For immediate release:
 
 
 CIGNA (NYSE:CI) today announced that Eric J. Foss will join CIGNA Corporation's board of directors effective immediately, and  will serve on the boards audit and corporate governance committees.
BLOOMFIELD, Conn.  July 26, 1011
 
Foss, 53, is the chief executive officer of Pepsi Beverages Co., a $16 billion division within PepsiCo Inc. with responsibility for the beverage business across the United States, Canada and Mexico. Prior to the merger of the Pepsi Bottling Group with PepsiCo, Foss served as Pepsi Bottling Groups chairman and chief executive officer.  He had been named CEO and elected to the Pepsi Bottling Groups board of directors in July 2006 and was appointed chairman in October 2008. Foss also is a director of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a leading multifamily real estate investment trust based in Colorado.
 
We are extremely pleased to have Eric join our board, said CIGNA Chief Executive Officer David M. Cordani.  Eric brings a wealth of experience and knowledge about how best to meet and exceed customers needs on a global basis.  He has a deep appreciation of our commitment to improve our customers health, well being and sense of security.
 
Eric understands what it takes to be a growth company and comes to CIGNA with a proven track record of success, said Chairman of the Board Isaiah Harris, Jr.  As CIGNA continues to successfully compete in the global marketplace, Eric will add tremendous value to our board.  We welcome him to CIGNA.
 
More information on CIGNA's board of directors is available at:
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/governance/index.html
About CIGNA
CIGNA (NYSE: CI) is a global health service company dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and sense of security. CIGNA Corporation's operating subsidiaries in the United States provide an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits, as well as group life, accident and disability insurance. CIGNA offers products and services in 29 countries and jurisdictions and has more than 66 million customer relationships throughout the world. All products and services are provided exclusively by such operating subsidiaries and not by CIGNA Corporation. Such operating subsidiaries include Life Insurance Company of North America, CIGNA Life Insurance Company of New York, and Connecticut General Life Insurance Company. To learn more about CIGNA, visit . To sign up for email alerts or an RSS feed of company news, log on to . Also, follow us on Twitter at , visit CIGNAs YouTube channel at and listen to CIGNA's podcast series with healthy tips and information at or by searching "CIGNA" in iTunes.
www.cigna.com
http://newsroom.cigna.com/rss
@cigna
http://www.youtube.com/cigna
http://www.cigna.com/podcasts


