FILE:CI/CI-8K-20110531160222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 31, 2011, CIGNA Corporation announced the appointment of Ralph J. Nicoletti, 53, as the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 20, 2011.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Nicolettis appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
  
In connection with Mr. Nicolettis employment, he will receive an annual base salary of $550,000.   Pursuant to his offer letter, Mr. Nicoletti will receive the following sign-on grants under the Companys long-term incentive plan: (a) 2,372 transitional strategic performance units for the 2009-2011 performance period; (b) strategic performance shares for the 2010-2012 and the 2011-2013 performance periods with a grant date value of approximately $556,000 and $889,000, respectively; (c) a restricted stock grant with a grant date value of $250,000; and (d) stock options with a grant date value of $250,000.  Mr. Nicoletti also received a sign-on bonus of $50,000.   He will participate in the Management Incentive Plan with a target annual incentive award of $550,000, pro rated based on his start date, and he will be eligible for annual long-term equity incentives with a target award value of $1,900,000.  Mr. Nicoletti will be eligible to participate in employee benefit plans, including relocation, in accordance with the terms of the Company benefits plans, policies and arrangements, some of which are subject to repayment obligation if he voluntarily terminates employment within 1 year.
A copy of Mr. Nicolettis offer letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and the foregoing description is qualified by reference to the terms of the offer letter.
Effective June 20, 2011, Thomas A. McCarthy, who has been serving as the Companys Acting Chief Financial Officer, will assume the position of Vice President of Finance.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
David M. Cordani
President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 
April 27, 2011
Ralph Nicoletti
[Address]
 
Dear Ralph:
On behalf of CIGNA, I am delighted to confirm our offer of employment for the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer reporting to me.  I am confident that you will have significant impact on our overall business direction within CIGNA.  
The rewards package we are offering to you includes:
Total Direct Compensation Opportunity at target: $3,000,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 27, 2011
Page 2
   
 
Pursuant to the Company and Board Committee policy, your strategic performance share, stock option and restricted stock grant awards would be issued on the first open window day following the Board Committee approval of the grants.  The sign-on long-term incentive awards will be presented to the Board Committee depending on your start date.
 
_____
 The Board Committee typically approves payment of SPU awards half in cash and half in unrestricted shares for executives who do not meet CIGNAs stock ownership guidelines. The stock ownership guideline for this position is 300% of your base salary.
*
 
 Restricted Stock and Options are subject to the terms and conditions contained in the CIGNA Long-Term Incentive Plan and the grant materials.
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 27, 2011
Page 3
The compensation program elements described here  including annual incentive and strategic performance shares  are those of our current program and may be changed or modified by the People Resources Committee (PRC) of the Board of Directors.  As an executive of the company your compensation will be subject to any future program changes.
- This offer of employment is subject to your passing a standard drug test.  To satisfy this requirement, you will receive an overnight package from Kristen Gorodetzer of CIGNA's Executive Compensation Department.  
Drug Test
To satisfy the drug test requirement, you will need to take a photo ID and the Drug Test form (which will be mailed to your home address) to the location that is supplied in the overnight package.
If this is not a convenient location, please contact Diane Ledford at 215.761.4627 for additional site locations. If your confirmed test is positive for the presence of drugs, your employment offer will be immediately rescinded and you will not be eligible to apply for employment with any CIGNA company for the following 12 months.
If you have any questions or do not receive your Drug Test Location and Form please contact Diane Ledford.
CIGNA has a mandatory alternative dispute resolution program that includes an internal grievance process and mandatory arbitration in case of employment disputes.  The program also contains class action, collective action, and representative action waiver language.  The program applies to both employees and the Company.  Your agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of the program is a condition of this offer of employment.  
By accepting employment with the Company, you represent and warrant that your acceptance of employment with, and/or the performance of duties for, the Company will not breach any non-compete or other restrictive covenant that you may have with any other employer or party.  Please also understand that you are not to bring anothers confidential information to CIGNA or use such information in performing any work for CIGNA without first obtaining the express written consent of that party.  
Please understand that this offer is not a contract of employment.  CIGNA employees are at-will.  This means that you can resign your employment at any time and for any reason.  It also means that CIGNA can terminate your employment at any time and for any reason, with or without cause.
You will be required to complete a legally mandated I-9 form following commencement of employment.  Details about this and other forms will be provided to you on or before your first day of employment.
As an employee of a participating company, you will be able to take full advantage of CIGNAs benefit programs.  In addition to conventional benefit programs, such as health care, 401(k) and deferred compensation, there are additional worklife benefits available to you.  
Ralph, I am excited to have you join the CIGNA organization and be a key member of our team.
Please feel free to call me if you would like to discuss any of these items.    
Sincerely,
 
David M. Cordani
DMC/del
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 27, 2011
Page 4
Please indicate your acceptance of our offer by signing below and returning a copy to me.
c:J. Murabito
K. Gorodetzer
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
CIGNA (NYSE:CI) today announced the appointment of Ralph J. Nicoletti, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Nicoletti will begin his employment at CIGNA on June 20, 2011.
PHILADELPHIA and BLOOMFIELD, Conn.  May 31,  2011 
Ralph Nicoletti assumes executive leadership responsibility for all of CIGNA's financial operations and functions, as well as for CIGNA's investment management and strategic planning units.  He will be based in Bloomfield, Connecticut.
Nicoletti brings decades of experience and success driving growth and realizing efficiencies in industries focused on meeting and exceeding customer needs.  Most recently, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Alberto-Culver, Inc. in Chicago, a major manufacturer and marketer of personal care and household brands recently acquired by Unilever Group.
 
Ralph is an experienced global leader with the skills, strategic vision and passion to deliver strong results for our customers and shareholders, said President and Chief Executive Officer, David M. Cordani. He is ideally suited to enable the execution of our growth strategy to best serve our customers and shareholders.
 
Nicoletti began his career in 1979 with General Foods, which was acquired by Altria Corp. and later combined with Kraft Foods Inc where he held a number of accounting, finance, and auditing roles of increasing responsibility, attaining the position of senior vice president, corporate audit in March 2006.  In February 2007, he became senior vice president and chief financial officer of Alberto-Culver, Inc and then was promoted to executive vice president in August 2009.  Nicoletti holds a bachelors degree and MBA from Pace University.
.
,
.
 
Nicoletti will succeed Thomas A. McCarthy, who was named Acting Chief Financial Officer in September 2010.   McCarthy will assume the position of Vice President of Finance. Cordani said, We were fortunate to have someone with Toms institutional knowledge and experience seamlessly lead the financial operations during this interim period I thank Tom for being a strong strategic advisor among the executive leadership team and allowing us to effectively execute on our growth strategy.
.
 
About CIGNA
CIGNA (NYSE: CI) is a global health service company dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and sense of security. CIGNA Corporation's operating subsidiaries in the United States provide an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and vision care benefits, as well as group life, accident and disability insurance. CIGNA offers products and services in 29 countries and jurisdictions and has approximately 65 million customer relationships throughout the world. All products and services are provided exclusively by such operating subsidiaries and not by CIGNA Corporation. Such operating subsidiaries include Life Insurance Company of North America, CIGNA Life Insurance Company of New York, and Connecticut General Life Insurance Company. To learn more about CIGNA, visit . To sign up for email alerts or an RSS feed of company news, log on to . Also, follow us on Twitter at , visit CIGNAs YouTube channel at and listen to CIGNA's podcast series with healthy tips and information at or by searching "CIGNA" in iTunes.
www.cigna.com
http://newsroom.cigna.com/rss
@cigna
http://www.youtube.com/cigna
http://www.cigna.com/podcasts


