FILE:CI/CI-8K-20110613091553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 13, 2011 Company officials expect to participate in meetings and discussions with investors and analysts   During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2011, which remain in the range of $1.275 billion to $1.365 billion. This outlook assumes break-even results for the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (also known as VADBe) for full year 2011. This assumes that actual experience, including capital market performance, will be consistent with long term reserve assumptions.  Company officials also expect to reaffirm the outlook for medical membership for full year 2011, as discussed on the Companys first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.  A transcript of that earnings call is available at .
.
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is consolidated income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.
Investors are strongly encouraged to review the factors cited in the Cautionary Statement included in this report and the sensitivities discussed in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011 for further details and information.
Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) or (2) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders income from continuing operations.  Potential losses or gains related to the GMIB business, as well as investment impairments (both of which are sensitive to equity market and interest rate movements), could either adversely or favorably impact the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial condition, and could impact the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries as well as their dividend paying capabilities.
Special items for 2011 may include potential adjustments associated with litigation, tax and assessment related items.  Information is not available for management to identify, other than these items, or reasonably estimate additional 2011 special items.
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of CIGNAs consolidated adjusted income from operations (excluding VADBe) and medical membership for full year 2011 as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include but are not
 
 
 
 
limited to the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys strategic initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the health care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2011 and beyond results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not
historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements:  (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.  Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


