FILE:CI/CI-8K-20120127080048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cigna Corporation previously announced it expected to complete its acquisition of HealthSpring, Inc. during the first quarter of 2012.  Cigna now expects the parties may be in a position to close the transaction as early as January 31, 2012, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions.
Under the terms of the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 24, 2011, among Cigna, HealthSpring, and Cigna Magnolia Corp., each share of issued and outstanding common stock of HealthSpring will be converted at the effective time of the Merger into the right to receive $55.00 in cash, subject to certain exceptions.  Following closing, HealthSpring will become an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Cigna.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE
 
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Cigna Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys strategic initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the Health Care operations, and the outlook for the Companys results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements:  (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.  Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


