FILE:CI/CI-8K-20121126083107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
Beginning on November 26, 2012 and through the balance of the week, Company officials expect to participate in meetings and discussions with investors and analysts.  During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2012, which remain in the range of $1.655 billion to $1.705 billion, and for full year 2013, which remain in the range of $1.685 billion to $1.815 billion.  The Companys full year 2012 and full year 2013 financial outlooks include the impact of year-to-date results for its Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits business (also known as VADBe), but do not include an estimate for future impacts.  Future potential impacts from VADBe are not known or reasonably estimable, including the impact of changes in capital markets or periodic updates to long-term reserve assumptions.  Company officials also expect to reaffirm the outlook for medical membership growth for full year 2012 and full year 2013.
For more information about the Companys outlooks, please refer to the third quarter 2012 earnings release issued on November 1, 2012, and the 2012 Investor Day presentation and guidance sheet, each provided as of November 16, 2012.  These materials are available in the Investor Relations section of the Companys website located at by clicking on the links under Recent Financial Releases and Information.
http://www.cigna.com/aboutus/investor-relations
,
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is shareholders net income excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.  Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future net realized investment gains (losses) or (2) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders income from continuing operations.  The Company expects that special items for 2012 will include HealthSpring, Inc. acquisition costs and may also include potential adjustments associated with litigation and assessment related items.  Other than these items, information is not available for management to identify or reasonably estimate additional 2012 or 2013 special items.
Investors are strongly encouraged to review the factors cited in the Cautionary Statement included in this report and the sensitivities discussed in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as updated by the Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 8, 2012, for further details and information.
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimates of Cignas consolidated adjusted income from operations and medical membership growth for full year 2012 and full year 2013 as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Cigna Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys strategic initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the Health Care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2012, 2013 and beyond results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2012, the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 8, 2012, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5


