FILE:CI/CI-8K-20120229073029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
Beginning on February 29, 2012 and through the balance of the week, Company officials expect to participate in meetings and discussions with investors and analysts, including the Citi 2012 Global Health Care Conference.  During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm consolidated adjusted income from operations estimates for full year 2012, which remain in the range of $1.46 billion to $1.57 billion. The Companys full year 2012 financial outlook assumes break-even results for the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits business (also known as VADBe) for full year 2012. This assumes that actual experience, including capital market performance, will be consistent with long term reserve assumptions.  Company officials also expect to reaffirm the outlook for medical membership for full year 2012, as discussed on the Companys fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.  A transcript of that earnings call is available at .
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/recent_disclosures.html
Cigna will make a formal presentation at the Citi 2012 Global Health Care Conference that is expected to begin at approximately 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time on February 29, 2012.  Investors, analysts and the general public are invited to listen to the presentation over the Internet via webcast by visiting and clicking on the Event Calendar link on the Investor Relations page.  To listen to this presentation live on the Internet, visit at least 15 minutes prior to the presentation (to download and install any necessary audio software.)
http://www.cigna.com/about_us/investor_relations/events.html
http://www.cigna.com
Consolidated adjusted income from operations is consolidated income from continuing operations excluding realized investment results, special items and results of the Companys Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits business, otherwise known as GMIB, which is reported in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.
Investors are strongly encouraged to review the factors cited in the Cautionary Statement included in this report and the sensitivities discussed in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for further details and information.
Information is not available for management (1) to reasonably estimate future realized investment gains (losses) or (2) to reasonably estimate future GMIB business results due in part to interest rate and stock market volatility and other internal and external factors; therefore it is not possible to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders income from continuing operations.
We expect that special items for 2012 will include HealthSpring, Inc. acquisition costs and may also include potential adjustments associated with litigation and assessment related items.  Other than these items, information is not available for management to identify or reasonably estimate additional 2012 special items.
The foregoing statements represent managements current estimate of Cignas consolidated adjusted income from operations (excluding VADBe) and medical membership for full year 2012 as of the date of this report.  Actual results may differ materially depending on a number of factors, and investors are urged to read the Cautionary Statement included in this report for a description of those factors.  Management does not assume any obligation to update these estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Cigna Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors.  Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties.  These forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions and on information available to management at the time the statements are or were made.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the information concerning possible or assumed future business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, trends and, in particular, the Companys strategic initiatives, litigation and other legal matters, operational improvement initiatives in the Health Care operations, and the outlook for the Companys full year 2012 and beyond results.  Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should or similar expressions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements:  (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.  Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.  Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive.  Other sections of the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Risk Factors section, and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include both expanded discussion of these factors and additional risk factors and uncertainties that could preclude the Company from realizing the forward-looking statements.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
5
 
 


