FILE:PFG/PFG-8K-20040615155041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report: JUNE 7, 2004 (Date of earliest event reported) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-16725 42-1520346 (State or other jurisdiction Commission file number (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) Identification Number) 711 HIGH STREET, DES MOINES, IOWA 50392 (Address of principal executive offices) (515) 247-5111 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) ------------------
ITEM 7. EXHIBITS 99 Select Historical Financial Information, Reclassified to Account for Mortgage Banking as Discontinued Operations ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION On May 12, 2004, Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("The Principal") announced a definitive agreement for the sale of its entire mortgage banking business to Citigroup. Under the terms of the agreement, Citigroup will acquire the stock of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. The transaction has been approved by the Principal Financial Group board of directors and is expected to close in third quarter, 2004, subject to regulatory approval. Estimated proceeds from the transaction of approximately $1.26 billion include $290 million of value in excess of the U.S. GAAP net book value of assets and liabilities transferred of approximately $970 million. Proceeds from the transaction are based on a formula, a portion of which is sensitive to interest rates. The Principal will attempt to hedge this portion of the formula. U.S. GAAP book value of assets and liabilities transferred equals the sum of the U.S. GAAP equity allocated to the mortgage banking business of approximately $527 million plus approximately $443 million of income tax liability retained. All figures are as of April 30, 2004. The following pages include certain selected historical financial information of The Principal , which reclassifies the results related to the mortgage banking business to discontinued operations. We are providing this information as an aid to investors who seek to understand the effect of the sale on our historical results. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. By: /s/ THOMAS GRAF ----------------------------------- Name: Thomas Graf Title: Senior Vice President - Investor Relations Date: June 15, 2004 2
EXHIBIT 99 On May 12, 2004, Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("The Principal") announced a definitive agreement for the sale of its entire mortgage banking business to Citigroup. Under the terms of the agreement, Citigroup will acquire the stock of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. The transaction has been approved by the Principal Financial Group board of directors and is expected to close in third quarter, 2004, subject to regulatory approval. Estimated proceeds from the transaction of approximately $1.26 billion include $290 million of value in excess of the U.S. GAAP net book value of assets and liabilities transferred of approximately $970 million. Proceeds from the transaction are based on a formula, a portion of which is sensitive to interest rates. The Principal will attempt to hedge this portion of the formula. U.S. GAAP book value of assets and liabilities transferred equals the sum of the U.S. GAAP equity allocated to the mortgage banking business of approximately $527 million plus approximately $443 million of income tax liability retained. All figures are as of April 30, 2004. When the definitive agreement was signed, we met the criteria for discontinued operations under SFAS 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets". The following pages include certain selected historical financial information of The Principal, which reclassifies the results related to the mortgage banking business to discontinued operations. The restated financial information represents our preliminary assessment of the impact of the sale on our historical results, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We continue to study the classification of certain income and expense items for potential inclusion and/or exclusion as discontinued operations. The ultimate resolution of these decisions may change the classification of certain amounts presented herein. We are providing this information as an aid to investors who seek to understand the effect of the sale on our historical results. While we believe that the following selected preliminary financial information represents our best current estimate of the effect of the sale, we caution investors that it may not be indicative of the results that actually would have occurred if the sale had been in effect on the dates indicated or indicative of results which may be achieved in the future. The selected preliminary financial information is unaudited and should be read in conjunction with our annual audited financial statements as of December 31 2003, included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and our interim unaudited consolidated financial statements, included in our Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2004, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 3
Table of Contents Summary Financial Highlights 5-6 Consolidated Segment Income Statement Time Series Principal Financial Group Consolidated 7 U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment 7 International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment 8 Life and Health Insurance Segment 8 Mortgage Banking Segment 9 Corporate and Other Segment 9 Quarterly Consolidated Balance Sheet 10 Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations 11-12 Use of non-GAAP financial measures A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of our performance, financial position, or cash flows that includes adjustments from a comparable financial measure presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use a number of non-GAAP financial measures that management believes are useful to investors because they illustrate the performance of our normal, ongoing operations, which is important in understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. While such measures are also consistent with measures utilized by investors to evaluate performance, they are not a substitute for U.S. GAAP financial measures. Therefore, we have provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations located on pages 11 and 12. We adjust U.S. GAAP financial measures for items not directly related to ongoing operations. However, it is possible that these adjusting items have occurred in the past and could recur in the future. Management also uses non-GAAP financial measures for goal setting, to determine employee and senior management awards and compensation, and to evaluate performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts. We also use a variety of other operational measures that do not have U.S. GAAP counterparts, and therefore do not fit the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Assets under management is an example of an operational measure that is not considered a non-GAAP financial measure. 4
5
6
7
8
9
~ Increase in the third quarter of 2003 was due to our implementation of FIN 46. 10
11
12


