ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING BELOW AT PAGE 23, AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10 K. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product portfolio comprises the PICmicro(R) field programmable RISC microcontrollers, which serve 8 and 16 bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of high performance linear and mixed signal, power management and thermal management devices. We also offer complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial EEPROMS, and our application specific standard products (ASSPs). This synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications and a growing demand for high performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO 9001 (1994 version) and QS9000 (1998 version) certified. Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In this Form 10 K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224 6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792 7200. Our Internet address is WWW.MICROCHIP.COM. We post the following filings on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: o Our annual report on Form 10 K o Our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q o Our current reports on Form 8 K, and o Any amendments to the above listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All SEC filings on our Web site are available free of charge. The information on our Web site is NOT incorporated into this Form 10 K. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, many manufacturers use integrated circuit based embedded control systems that provide an integrated solution for application specific control products. Embedded control systems enable our customers to: o differentiate their products o replace less efficient electromechanical control devices o add product functionality o decrease time to market for their products, and o significantly reduce product cost 2 In addition, embedded control systems facilitate the emergence of complete new classes of products. Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide, including: o automotive comfort, safety and o cordless and cellular entertainment applications telephone accessories o remote control devices o motor controls o handheld tools o security systems o home appliances o educational and entertainment o portable computers devices, and o personal digital assistant (PDA) accessories. Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self contained computer on a chip consisting of a central processing unit, non volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers and internal or external non volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program software. The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market. Microcontrollers are currently available in 4 bit through 32 bit architectures. Although 4 bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While traditional 16 and 32 bit architectures provide very high performance, they are generally more expensive for most high volume embedded control applications, typically costing two to four times the cost of an 8 bit microcontroller. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high volume products have increasingly found 8 bit microcontrollers to be the most cost effective embedded control solution. Most microcontrollers available today are ROM based and must be programmed by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 10 to 12 week lead times, based on current market conditions, for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory shutdowns when changes in the firmware are required. To address these issues, some suppliers offer programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the customer in the customers manufacturing line, thus minimizing lead time and inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur. While these microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM based microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the last several years to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now available for little to no premium over ROM based microcontrollers, thus providing significant value to microcontroller customers. As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers are the fastest growing segment of the 8 bit microcontroller market. OUR PRODUCTS Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including: o microcontrollers o high performance linear and mixed signal devices o power management and thermal management devices o smart battery management devices, and o complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, low power radio frequency, or RF, devices, and our patented KEELOQ(R)security devices. We provide highly cost effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost effective embedded control product integration by our customers. 3 MICROCONTROLLERS We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique, proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC(R) brand name. We believe that our PIC(R) product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market. We have shipped approximately 2.5 billion PIC(R) microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our PIC(R) products are designed for applications requiring field programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of memory technology configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and ease of use. Our performance results from an exclusive product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual bus architecture; a reduced instruction set, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single bus, CISC architectures. With over 180 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the entire performance range of 8 bit microcontrollers. Additionally, our scalable product architecture allows us to successfully target both the entry level of the 16 bit microcontroller market, as well as the higher end of the 4 bit microcontroller marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable market. We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC(R) family of microcontroller products. Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user programmability feature by incorporating non volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings. DIGITAL SIGNAL CONTROLLERS We recently began sampling our Digital Signal Controller product line. Our family of dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers is a series of high performance 16 bit microcontrollers, combining the many features and capabilities of our PIC(R) family of 8 bit microcontrollers with the high performance capabilities of a digital signal processor (DSP). Our dsPIC(TM) product family will offer a broad development tool suite of hardware and software to ease the effort of the designer, high performance Harvard dual bus architecture and a proliferation of integrated peripherals to monitor and control all aspects of the embedded control product. With its field re programmability, program memory, low power, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers will significantly enlarge our addressable market. DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy to learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC(R) microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor for obtaining design wins. Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows(R) environment on standard PC hardware. Entry level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in circuit debugging hardware are priced at less than $200. Fully configured systems that provide in circuit emulation hardware are priced between $2,000 and $3,500. Customers moving from entry level designs to those requiring real time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC(R) devices since all systems share the same integrated development environment. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product architecture. Currently, there are more than 150 third party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third party, development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we have shipped more than 260,000 development systems. 4 ASSPs Our application specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are specialized products designed to perform specific end user applications, compared to our other products that are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP device families currently include, among others, the KEELOQ(R) family of secure data transmission products and smart battery management products. MIXED SIGNAL ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS Our mixed signal analog and interface products now consist of several families with over 300 power management, linear, mixed signal, thermal management and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2003, our mixed signal analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 7,000 end customers. We continue marketing and selling our analog and interface products into our existing microcontroller customer base, which we refer to as our analog "attach" strategy, as well as to new customers. In addition to our "attach" strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional PIC(R) microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and all of our products, based on a "functions" approach, targeted to solve different problems in development of our customers products. MEMORY PRODUCTS Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non volatile program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified frequently or retained for long periods. Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small devices. As a result, Serial EEPROMs are widely used to supply non volatile memory in space sensitive applications such as: o home electronics o portable computers o cellular and cordless telephones o pagers, and o remote control devices. We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions. High performance circuitry and microcode are also available to reduce power consumption when a device is not in use, while permitting immediate operating capability when required. Our memory products also feature long data retention and high erase/write endurance. MANUFACTURING Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and the majority of our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin. Our manufacturing facilities are located in: o Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) o Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) o Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3) (non operational held for sale) o Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4), and o Bangkok, Thailand (assembly and test). 5 WAFER FABRICATION As we announced on April 7, 2003, we are closing Fab 1 and integrating certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2. Fab 1, which currently produces 6 inch wafers using manufacturing processes between 0.5 and 5.0 microns, is our oldest manufacturing facility. Fab 2 currently produces 8 inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes between 0.35 and 5.0 microns. We expect that the integration of Fab 1 processes and products into Fab 2 will be completed by June 30, 2003, at which time Fab 1 will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. We also expect that we will incur accelerated depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. See "ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENT DEVELOPMENT," below at page 24, for a discussion of these anticipated charges. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand. During fiscal 2003, Fabs 1 and 2 operated at approximately 85% of their aggregate capacity, compared to approximately 70% of their aggregate capacity during fiscal 2002. Operating at lower percentages of capacity has a negative impact on operating results due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing. As of March 31, 2003, products manufactured on 8 inch wafers accounted for approximately 80% of our production. Fab 3 is non operational and is currently classified as an asset held for sale. See "ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL CHARGES FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE," below at page 33, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3. Fab 4 was acquired in August 2002. Product and customer qualifications are in process and production start up is currently planned for the third quarter of fiscal 2004. Fab 4 will produce 8 inch wafers using 0.5 micron manufacturing processes; however, Fab 4 is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our successful transition to more advanced process technologies and larger wafers is important for us to remain competitive. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any such transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. We also contract with third party wafer foundries to fabricate approximately 3% of our products, primarily in our analog and smart battery management product families. We plan to transition certain of these products to our own wafer fabrication facilities over time. On a strategic basis, we will continue to use third party foundries to shorten our product design cycle on certain key technologies and products. ASSEMBLY AND TEST We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility. As of March 31, 2003, our Thailand facility was testing substantially all of our wafer production. During fiscal 2003, we substantially completed an approximately 67,000 square foot expansion of test capacity at our Thailand facility that, once placed in service, will increase the facilitys test capacity by between 50% and 70%. The expansion was not finalized, as the capacity is not currently required due to conditions within the semiconductor industry. We plan to complete the expansion when business conditions indicate that the capacity is required. We also use third party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. GENERAL MATTERS IMPACTING OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our 6 engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields can have significant positive effects on gross profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2003, our focus on manufacturing productivity allowed us to maintain average wafer fab line yields in excess of 95%. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources could harm our business. Our reliance on third parties for a portion of wafer fabrication and assembly and testing involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of these third party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE TIMING OF THE COMPLETION OF THE TRANSFER OF PROCESSES AND PRODUCTS FROM FAB 1 TO FAB 2, THE TIMING, COMPOSITION AND AMOUNT OF ANY CHARGES RELATED TO THE SHUT DOWN OF FAB 1, THE TIMING OF PRODUCTION START UP OF FAB 4, THE SHUT DOWN OF FAB 1 AND THE INTEGRATION OF CERTAIN PERSONNEL AND PROCESSES FROM FAB 1 INTO FAB 2 AND THE START UP OF FAB 4 ALLOWING US TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS, THE COMBINED CAPACITY OF FAB 2 AND FAB 4 PROVIDING SUFFICIENT CAPACITY TO ALLOW US TO RESPOND TO FUTURE INCREASES IN DEMAND AND THE TRANSITION TO MORE ADVANCED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY CARRY OUT OUR PLANNED RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES AND REALIZE THE SAVINGS AND OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES EXPECTED FROM THESE ACTIONS; THE RATE OF RECOVERY IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS; THE POTENTIAL FOR UNANTICIPATED RESULTS FROM OUR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES ON OUR PERFORMANCE INCLUDING CUSTOMER CONCERNS, PRODUCTIVITY AND THE RETENTION OF KEY EMPLOYEES; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF OUR CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON LINE; TIMELY FACILITIZATION OF FAB 4, INCLUDING THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION AT FAB 4; THE ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IN THE PORTLAND, OREGON AREA; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR ANALOG AND BATTERY MANAGEMENT PRODUCTS; SUPPLY DISRUPTION; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING COSTS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS; PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; LABOR UNREST; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the design of new 8 bit microcontrollers, 16 bit digital signal controllers, memory and mixed signal products, ASSPs, new development systems, and software and application specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technology to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. 7 In fiscal 2003, our R&D expenses were $88.0 million, compared to $81.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $78.6 million in fiscal 2001. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION GENERAL We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end user support. DISTRIBUTION Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. In fiscal 2003, we derived 60% of our net sales from sales through distributors and 40% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEM, customers. Distributors accounted for 62% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. One distributor accounted for 12% of our total net sales for fiscal 2003, 13% of our total net sales for fiscal 2002 and 14% for fiscal 2001. No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2003, 2002 or 2001. Generally, we do not have long term agreements with our distributors and our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in us receiving product returns from the distributors. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we provide price protection to our distributors. Under our current policy, distributors receive a credit for the difference, at the time of a price reduction, between the price they were originally charged for products in inventory and the reduced price that we subsequently charge distributors. On a case by case basis, distributors may also receive credit for specific transactions that we approve in advance. We also grant distributors limited rights to return products. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer returns. Our distributors have broad rights to return products and price protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003. See "Item 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE," beginning at page 24 below. 8 SALES BY GEOGRAPHY Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % Americas $219,504 33.7 $192,924 33.8 $236,295 33.0 Europe 177,727 27.3 179,355 31.4 219,302 30.6 Asia 254,231 39.0 198,975 34.8 260,133 36.4 Total Sales $651,462 100.0% $571,254 100.0% $715,730 100.0% Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 68% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report. Our international sales are predominately billed in U.S. Dollars. Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to date. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks as described under the heading, "WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS," on page 16. BACKLOG As of April 25, 2003, our backlog was approximately $106.6 million, compared to $119.9 million as of April 26, 2002. Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months. We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customers option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period. COMPETITION The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control applications. Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is generally increasing over time and such increased capacity or improved product availability could adversely affect our competitive position. 9 We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including such products: o speed o reliability o functionality o packaging alternatives o density o price, and o power consumption o availability We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: o ease of use o functionality of application development systems o dependable delivery and quality, and o technical service and support. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2003 and 2021. We also have numerous additional United States and foreign patent applications pending. While we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative abilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and divert management effort, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. See "ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS," beginning below at page 19. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control adequately the storage, use and disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. 10 EMPLOYEES As of April 25, 2003, we had 3,373 employees. Approximately 39% of our employees work at our Thailand facility. None of our employees in the U.S. or Thailand are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. On April 7, 2003, we announced that the closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2 would result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. See "ITEM 1 BUSINESS MANUFACTURING," above at page 5 for a discussion of the closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain personnel and processes into Fab 2. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 25, 2003: NAME AGE POSITION Steve Sanghi 47 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer David S. Lambert 51 Vice President, Fab Operations Mitchell R. Little 50 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications Ganesh Moorthy 43 Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Automotive Division Gordon W. Parnell 53 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Richard J. Simoncic 39 Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division MR. SANGHI has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. MR. LAMBERT has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. MR. LITTLE has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President, Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President, Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. Mr. Little holds a BSET from United Electronics Institute. MR. MOORTHY has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Automotive Division since November 2001. From August 2000 through November 2001, he served as Chairman and CEO of Cybercilium, Inc., a business intelligence solutions provider for mid market companies. From 1981 through July 2000, Mr. Moorthy worked at Intel Corporation in various operations and management capacities, including his last assignment as Director of Operations for Intels Home Products Group. Mr. Moorthy holds an MBA in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Bombay. MR. PARNELL has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993 to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland. MR. SIMONCIC has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors described below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other documents that we file with the SEC. 11 OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO FACTORS THAT COULD REDUCE OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY. Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: o changes in demand for our products in the distribution and OEM channels o the level and timing at which previous design wins become actual orders and sales o the level of sell through of our products through distribution o the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter (turns orders) o market acceptance of both our products and our customers products o customer order patterns and seasonality o levels of inventories at our distributors and other customers o inventory mix and timing of customer orders o downward pricing pressures in our product lines o possible disruption in commercial activities or international transport or delivery caused by war, armed conflict or terrorist activity, or unexpected increases in the price of, or decrease in the supply of, oil, any of which could result in changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced customer purchases relative to expectations o impact of events outside of the United States, such as the business impact of fluctuating currency rates or unrest or political instability o the impact on our business and on customer order patterns due to major public health concerns, such as the outbreak of the SARS virus o disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly and testing services o availability of manufacturing capacity, the extent of effective use of manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields o the availability and cost of raw materials, equipment and other supplies o the costs and outcome of any litigation involving intellectual property, customer and other issues o uninsured losses, and o economic, political and other conditions in the worldwide markets served by us. We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER IF WE INEFFECTIVELY UTILIZE OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY OR FAIL TO MAINTAIN MANUFACTURING YIELDS. The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. IF WE DO NOT BRING OUR FAB 4 (GRESHAM, OREGON) WAFER FABRICATION FACILITY ON LINE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR ANTICIPATED REVENUES MAY BE REDUCED AND OUR GROSS MARGINS WILL BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED. 12 We acquired Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, in August 2002. We currently anticipate that Fab 4 will commence production in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. Bringing Fab 4 on line involves significant risks, including: o successful implementation of our 0.5 micron manufacturing process at Fab 4 o effective integration of a variety of hardware and software components o potential shortages of materials and skilled labor o unforeseen environmental or engineering problems o approvals and requirements of governmental and regulatory agencies, and o unanticipated costs. Any one of these risks could delay the equipping and production start up of Fab 4, and could involve significant additional costs or reduce our anticipated revenues. As a result of these and other factors, Fab 4 may not commence production when anticipated or within budget. Also, we may be unable to achieve adequate manufacturing yields in Fab 4 in a timely manner and our revenues may not increase in proportion to the anticipated increase in manufacturing capacity associated with Fab 4 which would harm our operating results. WE DEPEND ON ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND SHIPPED IN THE SAME QUARTER AND THEREFORE HAVE LIMITED VISIBILITY OF FUTURE PRODUCT SHIPMENTS. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business is relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments. The percentage of turns orders in any given quarter fluctuates and depends on overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. As such, our percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter has fluctuated over the last three fiscal years between approximately 20% and 62%. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, increased levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will suffer. INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE MAY LEAD TO PRICING PRESSURES, REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND REDUCED MARKET SHARE. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for embedded control applications. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: o the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products o the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the needs of our customers o our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies o the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own products o our level of manufacturing capacity utilization and manufacturing yields o our ability to hire and retain qualified engineering and management personnel o product introductions by our competitors o the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market o our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices o our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property laws, and general market and economic conditions. 13 Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and non proprietary analog and interface products have declined, over time. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain of our proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. We have experienced in the past and expect to continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would reduce our operating results. WE MUST ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO BE SUCCESSFUL, AND COMPETITION FOR QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IS INTENSE IN OUR MARKET. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including: o proper new product selection o timely completion and introduction of new product designs o development of support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and o market acceptance of our customers end products. Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could reduce our future operating results. Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. GENERAL CONDITIONS IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY MAY AFFECT OUR COSTS AND INCREASE THE RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. As conditions in the insurance industry have resulted in decreased availability of coverage and substantially increased insurance rates over the last two fiscal years, our liability, property and casualty insurance coverage levels have decreased and our retained risk exposure from uninsured losses has increased. We have not made any material change to our operations as a result of the reduced coverage. Availability and cost of insurance coverage have generally fluctuated over time as the insurance industry reacts to various market forces and we will continue to consider changes in our coverage levels based on conditions in the insurance market. 14 WE ARE DEPENDENT ON SEVERAL THIRD PARTY CONTRACTORS TO PERFORM KEY MANUFACTURING FUNCTIONS FOR US. We use several third party contractors located throughout Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of the wafer fabrication of our analog and smart battery management products. Through the first half of fiscal 2004, we expect to continue to rely on one outside foundry to supply a substantial portion of the wafers that are required to support our smart battery management business, which represented approximately 2% of our net sales during the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Such foundry is a direct competitor of ours. Although we have reduced our dependence on third party contractors over time, the disruption or termination of any of these sources could harm our business and operating results. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor were to experience financial, operations, production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. In such case, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products on a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. WE MAY LOSE SALES IF OUR SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT FAIL TO MEET OUR NEEDS. Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON SELLING THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS. Sales through distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Sales through one distributor accounted for 12% of our total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Generally, we do not have long term agreements with our distributors and our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY THE WIDE FLUCTUATIONS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY. The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Throughout the last three fiscal years, the industry experienced a significant economic downturn, characterized by diminished product demand and production over capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period to period fluctuations in operating results and may, in the future, experience period to period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. WE ARE EXPOSED TO VARIOUS RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS OR CLAIMS. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. In addition, as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. 15 FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD RESULT IN LOST REVENUE OR MARKET OPPORTUNITIES. Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. WE DO NOT HAVE LONG TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of any early termination of a contract by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we would be able to rapidly replace that revenue source which would harm our financial results. BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Operations at any of our primary manufacturing facilities, or at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism, political instability, public health issues such as SARS, telecommunications failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters. If operations at any of our, or our subcontractors, facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis. If this occurs, we may experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS. Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, approximately 71% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use various foreign third party contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements for our analog and smart battery management products. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand. Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including: o political, social and economic instability o trade restrictions and changes in tariffs o import and export license requirements and restrictions o difficulties in staffing and managing international operations o employment regulations o disruptions in international transport or delivery o fluctuations in currency exchange rates o difficulties in collecting receivables o economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and o potentially adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. 16 CURRENT GEOPOLITICAL TURMOIL, PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERNS AND THE CONTINUING THREAT OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ATTACKS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. International turmoil, such as the recent war in Iraq, the tensions in North Korea and the SARS outbreak, have contributed to an uncertain political and economic climate in the United States and in many of the countries in which we conduct business. These conditions make it difficult for us, and our customers, to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could harm our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH MAY FORCE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES. We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such regulation could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities. OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES WE ACQUIRE COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire, additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day to day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction. RECENTLY ENACTED AND PROPOSED CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS AND RELATED REGULATIONS COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS TO US. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and rules proposed by the SEC, Nasdaq and the NYSE, could result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. The new rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. In this regard, during our most recent annual renewal of our director and officer liability insurance policy, we experienced substantially reduced policy limits and terms at a significant cost increase compared to our prior coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, on committees of our Board of Directors, or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs that we may incur as we implement these new and proposed rules. THE FUTURE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE SUBJECT TO WIDE FLUCTUATIONS IN RESPONSE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: 17 o quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies o actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors o changes in analysts estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations o general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and o worldwide economic and financial conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market price of our common stock. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES At March 31, 2003, we owned the facilities described below: APPROX. TOTAL LOCATION SQ. FT. USES Chandler, Arizona (1) 415,000 Executive and Administrative Offices; Wafer Fabrication (FAB 1); R&D Center; Sales and Marketing; and Computer and Service Functions Tempe, Arizona 379,000 Wafer Fabrication (FAB 2); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Puyallup, Washington (2) 700,000 Wafer Fabrication (FAB 3); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Gresham, Oregon (3) 826,500 Wafer Fabrication (FAB 4); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Chacherngsao, Thailand (4) 267,000 (5) Test and Assembly; Sample Center; Warehousing; and Administrative Offices (1) On April 7, 2003, we announced that we would close Fab 1 and integrate certain of the personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2. (2) Currently classified as an asset held for sale. We have retained a third party broker who is actively marketing Fab 3 on our behalf. See "ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL CHARGES FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE," below at page 33 for a discussion of the status of Fab 3. (3) Acquired in August 2002. Product and customer qualifications are in process and production start up is currently planned for the third quarter of fiscal 2004. (4) Located in the Alphatechnopolis Industrial Park near Bangkok on land to which we expect to acquire title in accordance with our agreement with the landowner. Progress towards obtaining full title of the land has been delayed due to a complex financial restructuring situation relating to the seller of the land. At this time it is not possible to estimate when full title transfer will be completed. (5) Includes an additional 67,000 square feet of test and incremental assembly capacity constructed during fiscal 2003. The new capacity is currently not in use but will be put in use as needed. At the end of fiscal 2003, we owned long lived assets in the United States amounting to $1,138.0 million and $290.2 million in other countries, including $182.2 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2002, we owned long lived assets in the United States amounting to $946.9 million and $328.7 million in other countries, including $163.9 million in Thailand. In addition to the facilities we own, we lease numerous research and development facilities and sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately $295,000. We currently believe that our existing facilities will be adequate to meet our requirements for the next 12 months. As conditions in the insurance market have become more difficult over the last two fiscal years, our property insurance cost have increased, our coverage levels have decreased and our retained risk exposure from uninsured losses has increased. We have not made any material change to our operations as a result of the increased costs and reduced coverage. Availability and cost of coverage have generally fluctuated over time as the insurance industry reacts to various market forces and we will consider modifying our coverage levels in the future based on availability and pricing. 18 THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE ACQUISITION OF TITLE TO THE LAND ON WHICH THE THAILAND FACILITY IS SITUATED, THE ADEQUACY OF EXISTING FACILITIES FOR THE NEXT 12 MONTHS AND CHANGES IN INSURANCE COVERAGE ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING OF THE SELLER OF THE LAND WHERE THE THAILAND FACILITY IS SITUATED; DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; COST AND AVAILABILITY OF INSURANCE; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 BUSINESS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 11 OF THIS REPORT. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED V. U.S. PHILIPS CORPORATION, ET AL. (DISTRICT OF ARIZONA, 01 CV 2090 PGR); U.S. PHILIPS CORPORATION V. ATMEL CORPORATION, ET AL. (SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, 01 CV 9178 LAP). As previously reported, on October 26, 2001, we filed an action in federal district court in Arizona for declaratory relief against U.S. Philips Corporation and Philips Electronics North America Corp. requesting that the Court declare, among other matters, that we do not infringe Philips U.S. Patent Nos. 4,689,740 and 5,559,502. We initiated legal action so that a determination could be made relating to the validity, enforceability and alleged infringement of, and our license to, the Philips patents. In response to our filing the declaratory judgment action in Arizona, Philips filed an action against us in federal district court in New York, alleging infringement of the `740 patent and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. The Arizona court has agreed to retain jurisdiction, and the New York case has been transferred to Arizona. In response to this development, on December 16, 2002, Philips filed a demand for arbitration in Amsterdam with the International Chamber of Commerce. We have submitted to the ICC Court of Arbitration a jurisdictional objection to proceeding with arbitration pending the outcome of the Arizona litigation, but the ICC has not yet ruled on this objection. Additionally, Philips and we have filed and briefed cross motions in the Arizona action with Philips seeing to compel the arbitration in the ICC while we are seeking to stay the arbitration and proceed with the Arizona action. The cross motions have not been decided. Pending a decision, discovery has been stayed by agreement between Philips and us. We intend to continue to litigate this matter vigorously. We currently believe that the outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, the final outcome of this matter is inherently uncertain, and should the outcome be adverse to us, we may be required to pay damages and other expenses and may be subjected to injunctive relief. The litigation, even if resolved in our favor, may also result in diversion of management attention and significant legal fees. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome of these actions is not presently determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm our business. Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "MCHP." Our common stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq National Market since our initial public offering on March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market for the last two years, adjusted to reflect a 3 for 2 stock split effected in May 2002: 19 FISCAL 2003 HIGH LOW FISCAL 2002 HIGH LOW First Quarter $33.07 $26.52 First Quarter $22.29 $14.96 Second Quarter 27.54 15.36 Second Quarter 25.59 16.89 Third Quarter 29.29 19.44 Third Quarter 27.84 16.81 Fourth Quarter 27.51 19.90 Fourth Quarter 28.81 22.26 On May 27, 2003, there were approximately 545 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held in nominee names. We declared our first quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share on October 25, 2002. Subsequent quarterly dividends were declared on January 21, 2003 ($0.02 per share) and on April 24, 2003 ($0.024 per share). Our Board is free to change its dividend practices at any time and to decrease or increase the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. Please refer to Item 12, "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS," at page 40 below, for the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S K with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2003. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the five year period ended March 31, 2003 in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this Form 10 K. Our consolidated income statement data for each of the years in the three year period ended March 31, 2003, and the balance sheet data as of March 31, 2003 and 2002, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. We effected a 3 for 2 stock split, in the form of a stock dividend, on May 8, 2002. All references in this Form 10 K to the number of shares and earnings per share have been adjusted to reflect this stock split. THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY 20 Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in thousands, except per share data) Income Statement Data (1): Net sales .............................. $ 651,462 $ 571,254 $ 715,730 $ 553,051 $ 460,723 Cost of sales .......................... 299,227 284,518 335,016 269,611 240,170 Research and development ............... 87,963 81,650 78,595 52,365 46,375 Selling, general and administrative .... 89,355 82,615 102,620 86,750 72,502 Special charges (2) .................... 50,800 17,358 (2,131) 34,495 Operating income ....................... 124,117 122,471 182,141 146,456 67,181 Interest income (expense), net ......... 3,344 4,344 12,741 1,569 (1,824) Other income (expense), net ............ 871 376 2,080 770 665 Net loss in equity investment (2) ...... (2,190) Gain on sale of investment (2) ......... 1,427 5,819 Income before income taxes ............. 128,332 127,191 196,199 154,614 66,022 Provision for income taxes ............. 28,657 32,377 53,363 39,441 19,481 Net income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle ....... 99,675 94,814 142,836 115,173 46,541 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (3) ............. 11,443 Net income ............................. $ 88,232 $ 94,814 $ 142,836 $ 115,173 $ 46,541 Basic net income per share ............. $ 0.44 $ 0.48 $ 0.74 $ 0.63 $ 0.25 Diluted net income per share ........... $ 0.42 $ 0.45 $ 0.70 $ 0.59 $ 0.24 Basic common shares outstanding ........ 202,483 199,184 193,632 183,471 185,250 Diluted common shares outstanding ...... 210,646 208,907 205,190 195,509 193,323 Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in thousands) Balance Sheet Data (1): Working capital ........................ $ 393,979 $ 381,211 $ 176,936 $ 225,504 $ 110,888 Total assets ........................... 1,428,275 1,275,600 1,161,349 861,352 546,396 Long term obligations, less current portion .............................. 27,678 Stockholders equity ................... 1,178,949 1,075,779 942,848 662,878 384,715 (1) On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. and accounted for the merger as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, the selected financial data has been restated to include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, thus the selected financial data presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999 have been combined with the operations of TelCom as of and for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998. We have conformed the TelCom financial data to a March 31 year end for the March 31, 2001 fiscal year. (2) There were no special charges during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002. Detailed discussions of the special charges, net loss in equity investment, and gain on sale of investment for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003 and 2001 are contained in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Detailed explanations of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2000 and 1999 are provided below. The following table presents a summary of special charges for the five year period ended March 31, 2003: 21 Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in thousands) Fab 3 impairment charge ................ $ 41,500 $ $ $ $ In process research and development charge ................... 9,300 Restructuring charges .................. 6,409 269 20,908 TelCom merger charges .................. 10,949 Intellectual property settlement ....... (3,600) 5,105 Legal charges .......................... 1,200 Keeloq acquisition ..................... 7,632 Sales restructuring .................... 850 Totals ................................. $ 50,800 $ $ 17,358 $ (2,131) $ 34,495 (3) We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003. See "Item 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE," beginning at page 24 below, for a discussion of this change. FISCAL 2000 TelCom recorded restructuring charges in its quarter ended March 31, 1999 of $0.3 million, primarily for employee severance costs. These charges have been reflected in our fiscal 2000 operating results. All restructuring reserves relating to these charges have been fully utilized. LEGAL SETTLEMENT WITH LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC. On January 13, 1998, we finalized a settlement of patent litigation with Lucent Technologies Inc. Under the terms of the settlement, we made a one time cash payment to Lucent and issued to Lucent a warrant to acquire 1,012,500 shares of our common stock at $7.48 per share. We originally assigned a value of $3.3 million to the warrant and recorded the amount in accrued liabilities. The warrant was exercised by the holder in fiscal 2002, and the $3.3 million was reclassified to additional paid in capital and is now reflected in our Statement of Stockholders Equity and Other Comprehensive Income. The terms of the settlement also provided for a contingent payment to Lucent if our earnings per share performance for the three and one half year period ended June 30, 2001 did not meet certain targeted levels. Based on the estimate of earnings per share for the measurement period as of March 31, 1999, we provided appropriate reserves of approximately $5.1 million to meet this liability. Due to the sale of the warrant by the holder to a third party, the associated reserve became unnecessary and $3.6 million of the special charge was reversed in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. We also recorded a special charge related to other legal issues in the amount of $1.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2000 actions have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided amounts. FISCAL 1999 We implemented two restructuring actions during the quarter ended March 31, 1999. First, we eliminated our 5 inch wafer fabrication line, which resulted in a restructuring charge of $7.6 million in the March 1999 quarter. We also decided to restructure our test operations by closing our Taiwan facility and migrating that test capacity to our lower cost Thailand facility. This action resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.1 million in the March 1999 quarter. These two restructuring actions were undertaken to improve manufacturing flexibility, close our least cost effective production capacity, and thereby reduce operating costs. 22 Included in the restructuring charges resulting from elimination of the 5 inch production capacity was: o $6.8 million related to equipment that was written off o $0.3 million related to employee severance costs, and o $0.5 million related to other restructuring costs. Included in the restructuring charges resulting from the closure of the Taiwan facility was $5.6 million related to employee severance costs and $0.5 million related to other restructuring costs. Included in the special charge recorded in the quarter ended March 31, 1999 was $1.8 million related to two legal settlements associated with intellectual property matters, and $0.4 million related to the restructure of a portion of our sales infrastructure. During the quarter ended June 30, 1998, we recognized a special charge of $3.8 million, which was comprised of a $3.3 million legal settlement with another company involving an intellectual property dispute and a $0.5 million charge associated with the restructuring of a portion of our sales infrastructure. We also incurred charges of $1.7 million for the write off of obsolete products due to the introduction of newer products, charging this to cost of goods sold. In August 1998, TelCom announced plans to shut down its 5 inch wafer fabrication facility in Mountain View, California and use third party foundries for all of its wafer fabrication requirements. In conjunction with the shut down of its wafer fabrication facility, TelCom recorded fab closure charges totaling $7.2 million, predominately associated with the write down and write off of manufacturing equipment and facilities improvements and related charges associated with the manufacturing restructuring. All restructuring reserves relating to these charges have been fully utilized. KEELOQ(R) HOPPING CODE On November 17, 1995, we acquired the KEELOQ(R) hopping code technology and patents developed by Nanoteq Ltd. of the Republic of South Africa, and marketing rights related thereto. The acquisition of KEELOQ(R) was treated as an asset purchase for accounting purposes. The amount paid for KEELOQ(R), including related costs, was $12.9 million. In December 1995, we wrote off $11.4 million, which represented the portion of the purchase price relating to in process R&D costs, as well as all acquisition related expenses. The remaining $1.5 million was capitalized as purchased technology. The amount of the purchased technology was determined by applying a discounted cash flow model to the expected future revenue stream of the products acquired. In March 1999, a second cash payment of $10.3 million was made in accordance with the terms of the original purchase agreement, and was capitalized as purchased technology. In addition, $1.1 million of legal costs paid to defend the KEELOQ(R) intellectual property was also capitalized, resulting in a total net carrying amount of $11.9 million including the $0.5 million of residual asset value capitalized a part of the initial payment, as of March 31, 1999. Although we were obligated to make the second payment, we were concerned that the recoverability of the carrying amount of the technology asset might not be recoverable due to change in the forecasted cash flows related to the KEELOQ(R) products. In accordance with SFAS 121, ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND FOR LONG LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF, paragraphs 4 through 11, we prepared an undiscounted cash flow analysis at March 31, 1999, which determined that the value of the KEELOQ(R) technology was impaired. We measured the impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the asset, which was deemed to be $4.3 million, resulting in an impairment write down of $7.6 million. The value of the purchased technology remaining at March 31, 1999 of $4.3 million was amortized over 3 years, the remaining life of the technology. All restructuring reserves relating to the fiscal 1999 actions have been fully utilized. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OUR MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE SOURCES. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE," "PLAN," "EXPECT," "FUTURE," "INTEND" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE RESULTS ANTICIPATED IN 23 THESE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH IN THIS ITEM 7, AND UNDER "ITEM 1 BUSINESS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 11, ABOVE, AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10 K. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom and accounted for the merger as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements have been restated to include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, thus the consolidated financial statements presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999 have been combined with the operations of TelCom as of and for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998. We have conformed the TelCom financial data to a March 31 year end for the March 31, 2001 fiscal year. RECENT DEVELOPMENT On April 7, 2003, we announced our intention to close our Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into our Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer fabrication facility. This decision was made as a result of days of inventory at March 31, 2003 reaching 128 days, increasing from 110 days at December 31, 2002. This increase in inventory reflects the lower demand for our products that we experienced in the March 2003 quarter. We made the decision to close Fab 1 in order to better align our production capacity to current demand requirements. This decision making process included a review of our capacity including the forthcoming start up of our Gresham Oregon (Fab 4) wafer fabrication facility which is required to produce our more advanced products. We expect to complete the integration process during the quarter ending June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 of between $27 million and $33 million. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE We have historically recognized revenue from sales to our Americas, European and multinational Asian distributors at Point of Sale (POS), or when those distributors sell our products to their customers, and prior to fiscal 2003 we recognized revenue on sales to regional Asian distributors at Point of Purchase (POP), or when we shipped product to these distributors. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors at POS are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to its customers. On March 18, 2003, we announced that we would change our revenue recognition policy relating to regional Asian distributors from POP to POS. We believe that revenue recognition at POS for sales to distributors as our sole revenue recognition policy worldwide is a more reflective measure of end customer demand for our products. To implement the change in revenue recognition, we recorded the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $11.4 million (net of income taxes of $6.6 million) as of April 1, 2002, the beginning of fiscal 2003. The cumulative effect of this change in accounting principle was calculated by multiplying the quantity of our inventory that the regional Asia distributors maintained as of April 1, 2002 by the gross margin we would realize on those sales, net of related income tax. We restated our quarterly results for fiscal 2003 to conform to the change in accounting principle and have included at Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements a comparative table of our earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal 2003 with and without the change in accounting principle. The restatement of the first three quarters of fiscal 2003 resulted in a cumulative reduction in revenue of approximately $8.7 million and a cumulative reduction in net income of approximately $2.4 million or $.01 per share. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES GENERAL Our discussion and analysis of Microchips financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes, property plant and equipment, litigation and impairment of property, 24 plant and equipment and assets held for sale. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer returns. Returns have historically been less than 1.5% of sales. To the extent rates of return change, our estimates for the reserves necessary to cover such returns would also change. Our distributors have broad rights to return products and price protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003 as described above at page 24 and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected are, additional inventory write downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our reserves for obsolescence, we generally evaluate estimates of demand over a 12 month period which is based on the most recent quarter multiplied by four and provide reserves for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12 month demand. INCOME TAXES As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that it is "more likely than not" that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was $116.5 million. Numerous taxing authorities in the countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset the potential tax liabilities that may arise upon audit in these countries. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than the ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would result. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET AND THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: RESULTS OF ANY AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE VARIOUS TAXING AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; THE LEVEL OF OUR TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS AVAILABLE FROM OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSETS; CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; AND TAXATION RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS. 25 PROPERTY PLANT & EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. At March 31, 2003, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $767.9 million, which represents 53.8% of our total assets. This carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgements relative to the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from five to seven years on manufacturing equipment and approximately 30 years on buildings. Fab 4 has not been placed in service and the related depreciation of the assets at Fab 4 has not commenced. The lives to be used for depreciating the equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in service. We do not believe that the temporary idling of such assets has impaired the estimated life or values of the underlying assets. In April 2003, we announced our intention to close Fab 1 and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into Fab 2. We expect to complete the integration process during the quarter ended June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges on the underlying assets and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1. The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations, would likely result in materially different carrying values of assets and results of operations. We do not currently hold title to the land on which our Thailand facility resides. The land is subject to a complex restructuring situation relating to the seller of the land. We have provided reserves that we estimate will be adequate to obtain full title. Such reserves are set at the estimated fair value of the land. However, timing of the resolution and the ultimate amount to be paid could change. LITIGATION Our current estimated range of liability related to certain pending litigation is based on the probable loss of claims for which we can estimate the amount and range of loss, and recorded reserves were not significant at March 31, 2003. Because of the uncertainties related to both the probability of loss and the amount and range of loss on the remaining pending litigation, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operation and financial position. IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE We assess whether indicators of impairment of long lived assets are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change. 26 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the years indicated: Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net sales .................................. 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales .............................. 45.9% 49.8% 46.8% Gross profit ............................... 54.1% 50.2% 53.2% Research and development ................... 13.5% 14.3% 11.0% Selling, general and administrative ........ 13.7% 14.5% 14.4% Special charges ............................ 7.8% 2.4% Operating income ........................... 19.1% 21.4% 25.4% NET SALES We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of market segments, perform on going credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. Our net sales of $651.5 million in fiscal 2003 increased by $80.2 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2002, and net sales of $571.3 million in fiscal 2002 decreased by $144.5 million, or 20.2%, over fiscal 2001. The increase in net sales in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from increased demand, predominantly for our proprietary microcontroller and analog and interface products. The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 resulted primarily from slowing demand from end markets, and to a lesser extent from inventory corrections at our customers, overall semiconductor industry conditions and Serial EEPROM pricing declines. We believe that we have continued to grow our percentage of market share in the embedded control market over the last three fiscal years. Key factors that have driven our net sales performance during the last three fiscal years include: o continued market share gains o increasing semiconductor content in our customers products o our new product offerings that have increased our served available market, and o increasing demand for our programmable products. Sales by product line for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % Microcontrollers ................ $516,383 79.3 $443,262 77.6 $468,751 65.5 Memory products ................. 87,158 13.4 85,473 15.0 177,821 24.8 Analog and interface products ... 47,921 7.3 42,519 7.4 69,158 9.7 Total Sales ..................... $651,462 100.0% $571,254 100.0% $715,730 100.0% Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period amounts to the current period presentation. MICROCONTROLLERS Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 78% of our total net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 66% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. 27 Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 17% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002. The increase in net sales was primarily due to increased demand for our microcontroller products in end markets, driven principally by market share gains and those factors described above under "NET SALES" at page 27. The end markets that we serve include the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. During fiscal 2002 the semiconductor industry experienced significant demand reductions based on overall market conditions. Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased approximately 5% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001. The decrease in net sales of our microcontroller products was significantly lower than the decrease in our other product lines, due primarily to our continuing design win performance and the overall positioning of our proprietary product offerings. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to in the past, and expect to be able to in the future, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. MEMORY PRODUCTS Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 13% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 15% of our total net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 25% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 2% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002, driven primarily by customer demand conditions within the Serial EEPROM market, which products comprise substantially all of our memory product net sales. Net sales of our memory products decreased by approximately 52% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, driven by over supply in the market and significant pricing pressures. Serial EEPROM product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. During the past three fiscal years, we have experienced several Serial EEPROM product pricing trends due to market conditions. In fiscal 2001 we experienced product pricing increases due to supply constraints within the market. We experienced significant competitive downward pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM product lines during the first half of fiscal 2002, returning to modest pricing declines in the second half of fiscal 2002. We experienced modest pricing declines in our Serial EEPROM product lines during fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 7% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 and approximately 10% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. Net sales of our analog and interface products increased approximately 13% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002 driven primarily by new proprietary design wins, supply and demand conditions within the market and our ability to gain market share. Net sales of our analog and interface products decreased approximately 39% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001 as a result of decreased demand, primarily in the telecommunications market. Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider approximately 45% of our analog and interface product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. During fiscal 2003, pricing of our non proprietary analog and interface products was approximately flat compared to fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2002, our analog and interface products experienced price reductions of approximately 25% compared to fiscal 2001. The price decreases experienced in fiscal 2002 can be primarily attributed to the supply and demand environment and 28 the integration of the TelCom products into our pricing structure. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog and interface products to increase over time. TURNS ORDERS Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the revenue target that we set entering the quarter. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with short delivery schedules. Turns orders directly correlate to product lead times, which are generally three weeks or less for the majority of our products, essentially unchanged from lead times a year ago. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments. With current lead times for the majority of our products being three weeks or less, generally, customers do not place orders beyond their immediate requirements. The percentage of turns orders in any given quarter is dependent on overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. As such, our percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter has fluctuated over the last three fiscal years between 20% and 62%. During fiscal 2003 our turns orders were at the high end of this range. Turns orders are difficult to predict, and we may not experience the combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in a quarter that would be sufficient to achieve anticipated net sales. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter, our net sales and operating results will suffer. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPETITIVE PRICING PRESSURE IN OUR MICROCONTROLLER, SERIAL EEPROM AND ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT LINES, OUR ABILITY TO MODERATE FUTURE AVERAGE SELLING PRICE DECLINES IN OUR MICROCONTROLLER PRODUCT LINES AND THE PROPRIETARY PORTION OF OUR ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT LINES INCREASING OVER TIME ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE LEVEL OF ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY; LEVEL OF SELL THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICING AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER FIXED MANUFACTURING COSTS; AND GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. DISTRIBUTION Distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, 62% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. Generally, we do not have long term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate their relationships with us with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At March 31, 2003, distributors were maintaining an average of approximately 2.5 months of inventory of our products. Over the past three fiscal years, the months of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 2.3 and 3.8 months. While inventory levels at our distributors are at the low end of the range we have experienced over the last three years, we would not anticipate any significant change in inventory holding patterns until lead times for our products, and the industry generally, 29 extend beyond the current levels. As we recognize revenue based on sell through for all of our distributors, we do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will impact our net sales. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR ANTICIPATION THAT DISTRIBUTOR INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS WILL NOT SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE UNTIL LEAD TIMES FOR OUR PRODUCTS, AND THE INDUSTRY IN GENERAL, EXTEND BEYOND THE CURRENT LEVELS AND OUR BELIEF THAT INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS AT OUR DISTRIBUTORS WILL NOT IMPACT OUR NET SALES ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE RATE OF RECOVERY IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY; THE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND CUSTOMER ORDER PATTERNS DUE TO MAJOR PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN, SUCH AS THE SPREAD OF THE SARS VIRUS; LEVEL OF SELL THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; AND THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS. SALES BY GEOGRAPHY Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % Americas $219,504 33.7 $192,924 33.8 $236,295 33.0 Europe 177,727 27.3 179,355 31.4 219,302 30.6 Asia 254,231 39.0 198,975 34.8 260,133 36.4 Total Sales $651,462 100.0% $571,254 100.0% $715,730 100.0% Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 68% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2001. The majority of our foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated. Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report. GROSS PROFIT Our gross profit was $352.2 million in fiscal 2003, $286.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $380.7 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percent of sales was 54.1% in fiscal 2003, 50.2% in fiscal 2002 and 53.2% in fiscal 2001. The most significant factors affecting gross profit percentage over the past three fiscal years were: o higher levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002 o reduced levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001 o continued cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing o our ability to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products where moderate downward pricing pressures have been offset by introduction of new products with more features and higher selling prices o varying positive and negative factors impacting the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products 30 o fluctuations in the product mix of proprietary microcontroller and analog products and related Serial EEPROM products o the sale of inventory that was previously reserved for, and o one week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002. By March 31, 2001, we reduced cumulative wafer capacity at Fab 1 and Fab 2 by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels, in response to business conditions that resulted in decreased product demand. During fiscal 2002, we operated at approximately 70% of our cumulative total Fab 1 and Fab 2 capacity due to the capacity reductions implemented in the March 2001 quarter and one week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002. Our overall gross margins in fiscal 2002 were negatively impacted by these actions due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing. During fiscal 2003, we operated at approximately 85% of our cumulative total Fab 1 and Fab 2 capacity, which favorably impacted gross margins, compared to fiscal 2002. The process technologies utilized and the size of the wafers on which our products are produced impact our gross margins. Fabs 1 and 2 currently utilize various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilize our 0.5 to 1.0 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, approximately 80% of our production was on 8 inch wafers. In fiscal 2001, approximately 62% of our production was on 8 inch wafers. All of our production will be on 8 inch wafers once the Fab 1 personnel and processes are integrated into Fab 2. Our overall inventory levels were $102.3 million at March 31, 2003, compared to $88.6 million at March 31, 2002 and $95.7 million at March 31, 2001. We had 128 days of inventory on our balance sheet at March 31, 2003, compared to 110 days at March 31, 2002 and 114 days at March 31, 2001. See "ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENT DEVELOPMENT," beginning at page 24 above, for a discussion of our anticipated actions related to our overall inventory levels. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog and interface and memory products and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, wafer fab loading levels and competitive and economic conditions. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATING TO OUR TRANSITION TO ADVANCED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS AND THE FLUCTUATION OF GROSS MARGINS OVER TIME ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN CAPACITY UTILIZATION; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING COSTS; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURE ON PRICING; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AS NEEDED; COST AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; AND OTHER GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility, compared to approximately 53% as of March 31, 2002. Third party contractors located throughout Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. Substantially all of our test requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility as of March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to third party contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. 31 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) R&D expenses for fiscal 2003 were $88.0 million, or 13.5% of sales, compared to $81.7 million, or 14.3% of sales, for fiscal 2002, and $78.6 million, or 11.0% of sales, for fiscal 2001. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. We expense all R&D costs as incurred. R&D expenses include expenditures for labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. R&D expenses increased $6.3 million, or 7.7%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. R&D expenses increased $3.1 million, or 3.9%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001. The primary reason for the dollar increase in R&D costs in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was increased labor and professional service costs associated with expanding our technical resources and the ongoing R&D expenses acquired as part of the acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. described at "SPECIAL CHARGES FISCAL 2003 POWERSMART IN PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE," below at page 33. R&D expenses would have been higher in fiscal 2002 if we had not implemented unpaid one week shutdowns in each of the first two quarters of fiscal 2002. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2003 were $89.4 million, or 13.7% of sales, compared to $82.6 million, or 14.5% of sales, for fiscal 2002 and $102.6 million, or 14.4% of sales, for fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force and field applications engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.7 million, or 8.2%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. The primary reason for the dollar increase in selling, general and administrative costs in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 relate to increased labor costs due to increases in headcount, salaries and bonuses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $20.0 million, or 19.5%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001, primarily due to reductions in wages, bonuses and recruitment costs and unpaid one week shutdowns in each of the first two quarters of fiscal 2002. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense levels. SPECIAL CHARGES The following table presents a summary of special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands) Fab 3 impairment charge $ 41,500 $ $ In process research & development charge 9,300 Restructuring charges 6,409 TelCom merger charges 10,949 Totals $ 50,800 $ $ 17,358 32 FISCAL 2003 FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG LIVED ASSETS," which is applicable to financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS 144 provides a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of and significantly changes the criteria that must be met to classify an asset as held for sale. Classification as held for sale is an important distinction because assets held for sale are not depreciated and are stated at the lower of book value or fair value less cost to sell. SFAS 144 is effective for all of our financial statements issued subsequent to April 1, 2002. In accordance with SFAS 144, we recorded a $41.5 million asset impairment charge during the quarter ended September 30, 2002, as described below. We acquired Fab 3, a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Puyallup, Washington, in July 2000. The original purchase consisted of semiconductor manufacturing facilities and real property. It was our intention to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness and commence volume production of 8 inch wafers using our 0.7 and 0.5 micron process technologies by August 2001. We delayed our production start up at Fab 3 due to deteriorating business conditions in the semiconductor industry during fiscal 2002. Fab 3 has never been brought to productive readiness. On August 23, 2002, we acquired Fab 4, a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Gresham, Oregon. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 11, below. We decided to purchase Fab 4 instead of bringing Fab 3 to productive readiness because, among other things, the cost of the manufacturing equipment needed to ramp production at Fab 3 over the next several years was significantly higher than the total purchase price of Fab 4, and the time to bring Fab 4 to productive readiness was significantly less than the time required to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness. After the acquisition of Fab 4 was completed, we undertook an analysis of the potential production capacity at Fab 4. The results of the production capacity analysis led us to determine that Fab 3s capacity would not be needed in the foreseeable future and during the September 2002 quarter we committed to a plan to sell Fab 3. We have retained a third party broker to market Fab 3 on our behalf. Accordingly, Fab 3 was classified as an asset held for sale as of September 30, 2002 and maintained that classification at March 31, 2003. We retained an independent third party firm, other than our independent auditors, to complete a fair value appraisal of Fab 3. The independent third party used the market approach and considered sales of comparable properties in determining the fair value of Fab 3. The comparable sales included eight properties, including our purchases of Fab 3 in July 2000 and Fab 4 in August 2002. Based on the results of this appraisal, we recorded an asset impairment charge on Fab 3 of $36.9 million, including estimated costs to sell. The remaining value of $60.2 million is classified as an asset held for sale and is included as a component of other current assets at March 31, 2003. During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, we also recorded an asset impairment charge of $4.6 million to write down certain excess manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 to its net realizable value of $212,000. This manufacturing equipment became "excess" as a result of duplicate equipment acquired in the purchase of Fab 4. The net realizable value for the excess manufacturing equipment was determined based on management estimates. Substantially all of the other manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 has been transferred to and will be used in our other wafer fabrication facilities located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) and Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4). If actual market conditions are less favorable than those estimated in the appraisal, or if future market conditions deteriorate, the net proceeds from the assets held for sale could be less than the amount estimated in the financial statements and additional charges could result prior to or at the time of the sale of the facility. POWERSMART IN PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE During the quarter ended June 30, 2002, purchased in process research and development of $9.3 million, associated with our acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. was written off at the date of the acquisition (June 5, 2002) in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, "APPLICABILITY OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 2 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE PURCHASE METHOD" (FIN 4). The value assigned to the in process research and development was determined by an independent valuation analysis performed by a firm other than our independent auditors. As of the valuation date, there were 15 projects that were considered to be in process. The values of the projects were determined based on analyses of cash flows to be generated by the products that are expected to result from the 33 in process projects. These cash flows were estimated by forecasting total revenues expected from these products then deducting appropriate operating expenses, cash flow adjustments and contributory asset returns to establish a forecast of net return on in process technology. These net returns were substantially reduced to take into account the time value of money and the risks associated with the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in achieving commercial readiness. The above analysis resulted in $9.3 million of value assigned to acquired in process research and development, which was expensed on the acquisition date in accordance with FIN 4. We believe the assumptions used in valuing the in process research and development are reasonable, but are inherently uncertain, and no assurance can be given that the assumptions made will occur. During fiscal 2003, we incurred development costs of approximately $3.2 million related to the acquired in process research and development, and should the projects continue to move toward commercialization, we estimate that future expenditures could approximate $2.0 million over the next few years. None of the in process research and development projects had been completed as of March 31, 2003. THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATING TO OUR ESTIMATED FUTURE EXPENDITURES ON THE ACQUIRED IN PROCESS R&D PROJECTS IS A FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: DELAYS IN COMPLETION OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; CHANGES IN OUR PRIORITIZATION OF PROJECTS; CHANGES IN THE SPECIFICATIONS OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; UNFORESEEN ENGINEERING PROBLEMS; AND UNANTICIPATED COSTS. FISCAL 2002 There were no special charges incurred during fiscal 2002. FISCAL 2001 During the March 2001 quarter, we implemented capacity and cost reduction actions necessitated by adverse business conditions in the semiconductor industry. We reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels. We also decided to close our Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the TelCom transaction, and migrate these test requirements to our Thailand test facility. The capacity reduction at Fabs 1 and 2 was completed by the end of the March 2001 quarter. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was completed by June 30, 2001. These actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.4 million in the March 2001 quarter. These actions were undertaken to reduce both manufacturing capacity and manufacturing costs. The reduction in wafer fab capacity was required due to reduced customer demand. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was undertaken to rationalize our test manufacturing capacity and migrate the test requirements to our more cost effective test facility in Thailand. Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions were: o $4.0 million related to equipment that was written off o $2.1 million related to employee severance costs, and o $0.3 million related to other restructuring costs. On January 16, 2001, we completed our merger with TelCom. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we exchanged each share of TelCom common stock for 0.795 of a share of our common stock. We issued 14,702,184 shares of our common stock and assumed all outstanding TelCom stock options. The transaction was structured as a tax free reorganization and has been accounted for as a pooling of interests. During the March 2001 quarter, we recognized a special charge of $10.9 million for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs included: o $7.3 million associated with investment banking fees o $1.6 million associated with legal and accounting fees o $0.9 million of severance costs, and o $1.1 million related to other costs. All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2001 actions have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided amounts. 34 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) Interest income in fiscal 2003 decreased from interest income in fiscal 2002 as our average invested cash balances and the interest rates applicable to our invested cash balances were lower in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. Interest income in fiscal 2002 decreased from interest income in fiscal 2001, although average invested cash balances were higher in fiscal 2002. The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2002 was primarily driven by significantly lower interest rates applicable to our invested cash balances during fiscal 2002 compared to the interest rates during fiscal 2001. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings. Our effective tax rate was 22.3% in fiscal 2003, 25.5% in fiscal 2002 and 27.2% in fiscal 2001, and is lower than statutory rates in the United States due primarily to lower tax rates at our foreign locations and R&D tax credits. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was due to the impairment portion of the special charges which provided an income tax benefit at a greater rate than our historic effective rate given the 40% tax jurisdiction in which it occurred. Excluding special charges, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2003 was 25.3%. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 related to increased R&D tax credits that were available to us. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that our deferred tax asset will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was $116.5 million. Various taxing authorities in the United States and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon audit in the United States and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Although our tax holidays in Thailand will partially expire in October 2003, our manufacturing operations in Thailand will be conducted using equipment that was invested pursuant to tax holidays that do not begin to expire until September 2006. We believe that the expiration of a portion of our tax holiday in Thailand will not have a material impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2004. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years ended March 31, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET FROM OUR FUTURE TAXABLE INCOME, THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES TO OFFSET ANY POTENTIAL TAX LIABILITIES THAT MAY ARISE UPON AUDIT AND OUR BELIEF THAT THE EXPIRATION OF A PORTION OF OUR THAI TAX HOLIDAY WILL NOT HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FISCAL 2004 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; TAXATION RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS; RESULTS OF ANY CURRENT OR FUTURE AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE OR OTHER TAXING AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; AND THE LEVEL OF OUR TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO UTILIZE OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET. 35 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We had $216.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments at March 31, 2003, a decrease of $64.1 million from the March 31, 2002 balance. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to the cash used in our June 5, 2002 acquisition of PowerSmart and our August 23, 2002 acquisition of Fab 4, offset by cash generated from operating activities. On February 25, 2003, we elected to terminate our unsecured revolving credit facility that we had maintained with a syndicate of banks since May 2000. The $100.0 million credit facility was due to expire on May 31, 2003. There were no borrowings against the credit facility on February 25, 2003. We did not borrow against the credit facility in either fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, we maintained an unsecured short term line of credit with various financial institutions in Asia totaling $20.0 million (U.S. Dollar equivalent). There were no borrowings under the foreign line of credit as of March 31, 2003, but an allocation of approximately $0.9 million of the available line was made, relating to import guarantees associated with our business in Thailand. There are no covenants related to the foreign line of credit. Net cash provided from operating activities was $260.2 million for fiscal 2003, $178.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $254.4 million for fiscal 2001. The increase in cash flow from operations was primarily due to our results of operations after consideration of non cash special charges. Pre tax income in fiscal 2003 increased approximately $51.9 million compared to fiscal 2002 after consideration of non cash special charges. Net cash used in investing activities was $376.8 million for fiscal 2003, $138.7 million for fiscal 2002 and $399.1 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 was primarily due to our acquisitions of Fab 4 and PowerSmart, increases in our short term investment balances and increased capital expenditures. We enter into hedging transactions from time to time in an attempt to minimize our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations have had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $265.1 million in fiscal 2003, $44.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $441.1 million in fiscal 2001. The primary reasons for the dollar increase in capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 were the purchase of Fab 4, other selective investments to increase our manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and our continued investment in R&D equipment. In each of fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $45 million during the next 12 months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. At March 31, 2003, we had contractual obligations of approximately $11.6 million for the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment. The majority of these contractual obligations mature in the quarter ending June 30, 2003. We expect to finance capital expenditures through our existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, available debt arrangements and other sources of financing, including possible issuances of equity and debt securities depending on market conditions. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE ANTICIPATED LEVEL OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS, THE NATURE OF SUCH EXPENDITURES, THE FINANCING AND SUFFICIENCY OF OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND THE BELIEF THAT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ANTICIPATED TO BE INCURRED OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL PROVIDE US SUFFICIENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY TO MEET OUR CURRENTLY ANTICIPATED NEEDS ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON LINE; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OF OUR CUSTOMERS PRODUCTS; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; ACTUAL LEVELS OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES; THE COSTS AND OUTCOME OF ANY LITIGATION 36 INVOLVING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, CUSTOMER OR OTHER ISSUES; THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND VENDORS; UNINSURED LOSSES; AND THE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE WORLDWIDE MARKETS SERVED BY US. Net cash used in financing activities was $3.1 million for fiscal 2003. Net cash provided by financing activities was $16.1 million for fiscal 2002 and $109.5 million for fiscal 2001. Proceeds from the sale of stock, the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plan were $31.5 million for fiscal 2003, $43.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $118.5 million for fiscal 2001. Repayments on lines of credit were $9.0 million in fiscal 2001. Cash expended for the repurchase of our common stock was $26.5 million in fiscal 2003 and $27.8 million in fiscal 2002. On August 7, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2,500,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2003, we had repurchased 1,264,700 shares of common stock for $27,062,782. As of March 31, 2003, all but 311,855 of the purchased shares had been reissued to fund stock option exercises and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and amount of any future repurchases will depend upon market conditions and corporate considerations. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. The initial quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share was paid on December 6, 2003 in the amount of $4,060,766. A second quarterly dividend payment of $0.02 per share was paid on February 28, 2003 in the amount of $4,068,480. A third quarterly dividend of $0.024 per share was declared on April 24, 2003 and was paid on May 29, 2003 in the amount of $4,893,296. We maintained a net shares settled forward contract during the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001. The table below contains a summary of the share and cash activity under this contract: 2002 2001 (in thousands) Shares received 277 Shares delivered (573) (996) Net shares received (delivered) (573) (719) Cash received $ 14,084 $ 17,190 Cash delivered (128) Net cash received (delivered) $ 14,084 $ 17,062 During fiscal 2002, we made a net delivery of 572,645 shares of our common stock. We also received approximately $14.1 million in connection with an early termination covering 1,650,000 of the shares outstanding under the net shares settled forward contract. We closed out the net shares settled forward contract in its entirety on January 15, 2002 and made a cash payment of $27.8 million to purchase the remaining 1,610,606 shares outstanding under the contract. The purchased shares were held as treasury shares and were used to fund stock option exercises and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan through April 9, 2002. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek additional equity or debt financing during the next 12 months for the capital expenditures required to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, and competitive factors. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. 37 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any transactions, arrangements and other relationships with unconsolidated entities that are reasonably likely to affect our liquidity or capital resources. We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provided off balance sheet financing, liquidity or market or credit risk support, engage in leasing, hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to liability that is not reflected on the face of the financial statements. See Note 18 of the financial statements regarding our lease commitments. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS SFAS 146 In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 (SFAS No. 146), ACCOUNTING FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES. SFAS No. 146 supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force No. 94 3 (EITF 94 3), LIABILITY RECOGNITION FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER COSTS TO EXIT AN ACTIVITY (INCLUDING CERTAIN COSTS INCURRED IN A RESTRUCTURING). SFAS 146 eliminates the provisions of EITF 94 3 that required a liability to be recognized for certain exit or disposal activities at the date an entity committed to an exit plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recognized when the liability is incurred. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. SFAS 148 In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION TRANSITION AND DISCLOSURE. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION, to provide alternative methods of transition to SFAS No. 123s fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 and APB 28, INTERIM FINANCIAL REPORTING, to require disclosure in the summary of significant accounting policies of the effects of an entitys accounting policy with respect to stock based employee compensation on reported net income and earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements. While SFAS No. 148 does not amend SFAS No. 123 to require companies to account for employee stock options using the fair value method, the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are applicable to all companies with stock based employee compensation, regardless of whether they account for that compensation using the fair value method of SFAS No. 123 or the intrinsic value method of APB 25. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, we have elected to continue to utilize the accounting method prescribed by APB 25 and have adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 as of March 31, 2003. FIN 45 In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees." FIN 45 requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. We will apply FIN 45 to guarantees, if any, issued after December 15, 2002. At adoption, FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or financial position. FIN 45 also requires guarantors to disclose certain information for guarantees, including product warranties, outstanding at March 31, 2003. FIN 46 In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES, AN INTERPRETATION OF ACCOUNTING RESEARCH BULLETIN NO. 51." FIN No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities, or VIEs, to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN No. 46 is effective for all VIEs created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN No. 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. We currently have no contractual relationship or other business relationship with a variable interest entity and, therefore, we do not expect the adoption of FIN No. 46 to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 38 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, was $208.7 million as of March 31, 2003, and $247.6 million as of March 31, 2002. These securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from the levels of March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002, the decline in the fair value of our investment portfolio would not be material given that the our investments typically have interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to current market rates. Additionally, we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows. We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would not be material given that we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations. During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this Item 7A, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OUR MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE SOURCES. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE," "PLAN," "EXPECT," "FUTURE," "INTEND" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE RESULTS ANTICIPATED IN 23 THESE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH IN THIS ITEM 7, AND UNDER "ITEM 1 BUSINESS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 11, ABOVE, AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10 K. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom and accounted for the merger as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements have been restated to include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, thus the consolidated financial statements presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999 have been combined with the operations of TelCom as of and for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998. We have conformed the TelCom financial data to a March 31 year end for the March 31, 2001 fiscal year. RECENT DEVELOPMENT On April 7, 2003, we announced our intention to close our Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into our Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer fabrication facility. This decision was made as a result of days of inventory at March 31, 2003 reaching 128 days, increasing from 110 days at December 31, 2002. This increase in inventory reflects the lower demand for our products that we experienced in the March 2003 quarter. We made the decision to close Fab 1 in order to better align our production capacity to current demand requirements. This decision making process included a review of our capacity including the forthcoming start up of our Gresham Oregon (Fab 4) wafer fabrication facility which is required to produce our more advanced products. We expect to complete the integration process during the quarter ending June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 of between $27 million and $33 million. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE We have historically recognized revenue from sales to our Americas, European and multinational Asian distributors at Point of Sale (POS), or when those distributors sell our products to their customers, and prior to fiscal 2003 we recognized revenue on sales to regional Asian distributors at Point of Purchase (POP), or when we shipped product to these distributors. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors at POS are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to its customers. On March 18, 2003, we announced that we would change our revenue recognition policy relating to regional Asian distributors from POP to POS. We believe that revenue recognition at POS for sales to distributors as our sole revenue recognition policy worldwide is a more reflective measure of end customer demand for our products. To implement the change in revenue recognition, we recorded the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $11.4 million (net of income taxes of $6.6 million) as of April 1, 2002, the beginning of fiscal 2003. The cumulative effect of this change in accounting principle was calculated by multiplying the quantity of our inventory that the regional Asia distributors maintained as of April 1, 2002 by the gross margin we would realize on those sales, net of related income tax. We restated our quarterly results for fiscal 2003 to conform to the change in accounting principle and have included at Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements a comparative table of our earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal 2003 with and without the change in accounting principle. The restatement of the first three quarters of fiscal 2003 resulted in a cumulative reduction in revenue of approximately $8.7 million and a cumulative reduction in net income of approximately $2.4 million or $.01 per share. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES GENERAL Our discussion and analysis of Microchips financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes, property plant and equipment, litigation and impairment of property, 24 plant and equipment and assets held for sale. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer returns. Returns have historically been less than 1.5% of sales. To the extent rates of return change, our estimates for the reserves necessary to cover such returns would also change. Our distributors have broad rights to return products and price protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003 as described above at page 24 and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected are, additional inventory write downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our reserves for obsolescence, we generally evaluate estimates of demand over a 12 month period which is based on the most recent quarter multiplied by four and provide reserves for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12 month demand. INCOME TAXES As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that it is "more likely than not" that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was $116.5 million. Numerous taxing authorities in the countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset the potential tax liabilities that may arise upon audit in these countries. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than the ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would result. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET AND THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: RESULTS OF ANY AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE VARIOUS TAXING AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; THE LEVEL OF OUR TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS AVAILABLE FROM OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSETS; CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; AND TAXATION RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS. 25 PROPERTY PLANT & EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. At March 31, 2003, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $767.9 million, which represents 53.8% of our total assets. This carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgements relative to the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from five to seven years on manufacturing equipment and approximately 30 years on buildings. Fab 4 has not been placed in service and the related depreciation of the assets at Fab 4 has not commenced. The lives to be used for depreciating the equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in service. We do not believe that the temporary idling of such assets has impaired the estimated life or values of the underlying assets. In April 2003, we announced our intention to close Fab 1 and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into Fab 2. We expect to complete the integration process during the quarter ended June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges on the underlying assets and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1. The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations, would likely result in materially different carrying values of assets and results of operations. We do not currently hold title to the land on which our Thailand facility resides. The land is subject to a complex restructuring situation relating to the seller of the land. We have provided reserves that we estimate will be adequate to obtain full title. Such reserves are set at the estimated fair value of the land. However, timing of the resolution and the ultimate amount to be paid could change. LITIGATION Our current estimated range of liability related to certain pending litigation is based on the probable loss of claims for which we can estimate the amount and range of loss, and recorded reserves were not significant at March 31, 2003. Because of the uncertainties related to both the probability of loss and the amount and range of loss on the remaining pending litigation, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operation and financial position. IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE We assess whether indicators of impairment of long lived assets are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change. 26 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the years indicated: Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net sales .................................. 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales .............................. 45.9% 49.8% 46.8% Gross profit ............................... 54.1% 50.2% 53.2% Research and development ................... 13.5% 14.3% 11.0% Selling, general and administrative ........ 13.7% 14.5% 14.4% Special charges ............................ 7.8% 2.4% Operating income ........................... 19.1% 21.4% 25.4% NET SALES We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of market segments, perform on going credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. Our net sales of $651.5 million in fiscal 2003 increased by $80.2 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2002, and net sales of $571.3 million in fiscal 2002 decreased by $144.5 million, or 20.2%, over fiscal 2001. The increase in net sales in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from increased demand, predominantly for our proprietary microcontroller and analog and interface products. The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 resulted primarily from slowing demand from end markets, and to a lesser extent from inventory corrections at our customers, overall semiconductor industry conditions and Serial EEPROM pricing declines. We believe that we have continued to grow our percentage of market share in the embedded control market over the last three fiscal years. Key factors that have driven our net sales performance during the last three fiscal years include: o continued market share gains o increasing semiconductor content in our customers products o our new product offerings that have increased our served available market, and o increasing demand for our programmable products. Sales by product line for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % Microcontrollers ................ $516,383 79.3 $443,262 77.6 $468,751 65.5 Memory products ................. 87,158 13.4 85,473 15.0 177,821 24.8 Analog and interface products ... 47,921 7.3 42,519 7.4 69,158 9.7 Total Sales ..................... $651,462 100.0% $571,254 100.0% $715,730 100.0% Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period amounts to the current period presentation. MICROCONTROLLERS Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 78% of our total net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 66% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. 27 Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 17% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002. The increase in net sales was primarily due to increased demand for our microcontroller products in end markets, driven principally by market share gains and those factors described above under "NET SALES" at page 27. The end markets that we serve include the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. During fiscal 2002 the semiconductor industry experienced significant demand reductions based on overall market conditions. Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased approximately 5% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001. The decrease in net sales of our microcontroller products was significantly lower than the decrease in our other product lines, due primarily to our continuing design win performance and the overall positioning of our proprietary product offerings. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to in the past, and expect to be able to in the future, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. MEMORY PRODUCTS Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 13% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 15% of our total net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 25% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 2% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002, driven primarily by customer demand conditions within the Serial EEPROM market, which products comprise substantially all of our memory product net sales. Net sales of our memory products decreased by approximately 52% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, driven by over supply in the market and significant pricing pressures. Serial EEPROM product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. During the past three fiscal years, we have experienced several Serial EEPROM product pricing trends due to market conditions. In fiscal 2001 we experienced product pricing increases due to supply constraints within the market. We experienced significant competitive downward pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM product lines during the first half of fiscal 2002, returning to modest pricing declines in the second half of fiscal 2002. We experienced modest pricing declines in our Serial EEPROM product lines during fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 7% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 and approximately 10% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001. Net sales of our analog and interface products increased approximately 13% in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002 driven primarily by new proprietary design wins, supply and demand conditions within the market and our ability to gain market share. Net sales of our analog and interface products decreased approximately 39% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001 as a result of decreased demand, primarily in the telecommunications market. Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider approximately 45% of our analog and interface product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. During fiscal 2003, pricing of our non proprietary analog and interface products was approximately flat compared to fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2002, our analog and interface products experienced price reductions of approximately 25% compared to fiscal 2001. The price decreases experienced in fiscal 2002 can be primarily attributed to the supply and demand environment and 28 the integration of the TelCom products into our pricing structure. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog and interface products to increase over time. TURNS ORDERS Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the revenue target that we set entering the quarter. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with short delivery schedules. Turns orders directly correlate to product lead times, which are generally three weeks or less for the majority of our products, essentially unchanged from lead times a year ago. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments. With current lead times for the majority of our products being three weeks or less, generally, customers do not place orders beyond their immediate requirements. The percentage of turns orders in any given quarter is dependent on overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. As such, our percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter has fluctuated over the last three fiscal years between 20% and 62%. During fiscal 2003 our turns orders were at the high end of this range. Turns orders are difficult to predict, and we may not experience the combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in a quarter that would be sufficient to achieve anticipated net sales. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter, our net sales and operating results will suffer. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPETITIVE PRICING PRESSURE IN OUR MICROCONTROLLER, SERIAL EEPROM AND ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT LINES, OUR ABILITY TO MODERATE FUTURE AVERAGE SELLING PRICE DECLINES IN OUR MICROCONTROLLER PRODUCT LINES AND THE PROPRIETARY PORTION OF OUR ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT LINES INCREASING OVER TIME ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE LEVEL OF ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY; LEVEL OF SELL THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICING AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER FIXED MANUFACTURING COSTS; AND GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. DISTRIBUTION Distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, 62% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. Generally, we do not have long term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate their relationships with us with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At March 31, 2003, distributors were maintaining an average of approximately 2.5 months of inventory of our products. Over the past three fiscal years, the months of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 2.3 and 3.8 months. While inventory levels at our distributors are at the low end of the range we have experienced over the last three years, we would not anticipate any significant change in inventory holding patterns until lead times for our products, and the industry generally, 29 extend beyond the current levels. As we recognize revenue based on sell through for all of our distributors, we do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will impact our net sales. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR ANTICIPATION THAT DISTRIBUTOR INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS WILL NOT SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE UNTIL LEAD TIMES FOR OUR PRODUCTS, AND THE INDUSTRY IN GENERAL, EXTEND BEYOND THE CURRENT LEVELS AND OUR BELIEF THAT INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS AT OUR DISTRIBUTORS WILL NOT IMPACT OUR NET SALES ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE RATE OF RECOVERY IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY; THE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND CUSTOMER ORDER PATTERNS DUE TO MAJOR PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN, SUCH AS THE SPREAD OF THE SARS VIRUS; LEVEL OF SELL THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; AND THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS. SALES BY GEOGRAPHY Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % Americas $219,504 33.7 $192,924 33.8 $236,295 33.0 Europe 177,727 27.3 179,355 31.4 219,302 30.6 Asia 254,231 39.0 198,975 34.8 260,133 36.4 Total Sales $651,462 100.0% $571,254 100.0% $715,730 100.0% Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 68% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2001. The majority of our foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated. Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report. GROSS PROFIT Our gross profit was $352.2 million in fiscal 2003, $286.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $380.7 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percent of sales was 54.1% in fiscal 2003, 50.2% in fiscal 2002 and 53.2% in fiscal 2001. The most significant factors affecting gross profit percentage over the past three fiscal years were: o higher levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002 o reduced levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001 o continued cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing o our ability to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products where moderate downward pricing pressures have been offset by introduction of new products with more features and higher selling prices o varying positive and negative factors impacting the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products 30 o fluctuations in the product mix of proprietary microcontroller and analog products and related Serial EEPROM products o the sale of inventory that was previously reserved for, and o one week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002. By March 31, 2001, we reduced cumulative wafer capacity at Fab 1 and Fab 2 by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels, in response to business conditions that resulted in decreased product demand. During fiscal 2002, we operated at approximately 70% of our cumulative total Fab 1 and Fab 2 capacity due to the capacity reductions implemented in the March 2001 quarter and one week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002. Our overall gross margins in fiscal 2002 were negatively impacted by these actions due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing. During fiscal 2003, we operated at approximately 85% of our cumulative total Fab 1 and Fab 2 capacity, which favorably impacted gross margins, compared to fiscal 2002. The process technologies utilized and the size of the wafers on which our products are produced impact our gross margins. Fabs 1 and 2 currently utilize various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilize our 0.5 to 1.0 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, approximately 80% of our production was on 8 inch wafers. In fiscal 2001, approximately 62% of our production was on 8 inch wafers. All of our production will be on 8 inch wafers once the Fab 1 personnel and processes are integrated into Fab 2. Our overall inventory levels were $102.3 million at March 31, 2003, compared to $88.6 million at March 31, 2002 and $95.7 million at March 31, 2001. We had 128 days of inventory on our balance sheet at March 31, 2003, compared to 110 days at March 31, 2002 and 114 days at March 31, 2001. See "ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENT DEVELOPMENT," beginning at page 24 above, for a discussion of our anticipated actions related to our overall inventory levels. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog and interface and memory products and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, wafer fab loading levels and competitive and economic conditions. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATING TO OUR TRANSITION TO ADVANCED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS AND THE FLUCTUATION OF GROSS MARGINS OVER TIME ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN CAPACITY UTILIZATION; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING COSTS; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURE ON PRICING; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AS NEEDED; COST AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; AND OTHER GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility, compared to approximately 53% as of March 31, 2002. Third party contractors located throughout Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. Substantially all of our test requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility as of March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to third party contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. 31 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) R&D expenses for fiscal 2003 were $88.0 million, or 13.5% of sales, compared to $81.7 million, or 14.3% of sales, for fiscal 2002, and $78.6 million, or 11.0% of sales, for fiscal 2001. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. We expense all R&D costs as incurred. R&D expenses include expenditures for labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. R&D expenses increased $6.3 million, or 7.7%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. R&D expenses increased $3.1 million, or 3.9%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001. The primary reason for the dollar increase in R&D costs in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was increased labor and professional service costs associated with expanding our technical resources and the ongoing R&D expenses acquired as part of the acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. described at "SPECIAL CHARGES FISCAL 2003 POWERSMART IN PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE," below at page 33. R&D expenses would have been higher in fiscal 2002 if we had not implemented unpaid one week shutdowns in each of the first two quarters of fiscal 2002. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2003 were $89.4 million, or 13.7% of sales, compared to $82.6 million, or 14.5% of sales, for fiscal 2002 and $102.6 million, or 14.4% of sales, for fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force and field applications engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.7 million, or 8.2%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. The primary reason for the dollar increase in selling, general and administrative costs in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 relate to increased labor costs due to increases in headcount, salaries and bonuses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $20.0 million, or 19.5%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001, primarily due to reductions in wages, bonuses and recruitment costs and unpaid one week shutdowns in each of the first two quarters of fiscal 2002. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense levels. SPECIAL CHARGES The following table presents a summary of special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: Year Ended March 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands) Fab 3 impairment charge $ 41,500 $ $ In process research & development charge 9,300 Restructuring charges 6,409 TelCom merger charges 10,949 Totals $ 50,800 $ $ 17,358 32 FISCAL 2003 FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG LIVED ASSETS," which is applicable to financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS 144 provides a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of and significantly changes the criteria that must be met to classify an asset as held for sale. Classification as held for sale is an important distinction because assets held for sale are not depreciated and are stated at the lower of book value or fair value less cost to sell. SFAS 144 is effective for all of our financial statements issued subsequent to April 1, 2002. In accordance with SFAS 144, we recorded a $41.5 million asset impairment charge during the quarter ended September 30, 2002, as described below. We acquired Fab 3, a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Puyallup, Washington, in July 2000. The original purchase consisted of semiconductor manufacturing facilities and real property. It was our intention to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness and commence volume production of 8 inch wafers using our 0.7 and 0.5 micron process technologies by August 2001. We delayed our production start up at Fab 3 due to deteriorating business conditions in the semiconductor industry during fiscal 2002. Fab 3 has never been brought to productive readiness. On August 23, 2002, we acquired Fab 4, a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Gresham, Oregon. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 11, below. We decided to purchase Fab 4 instead of bringing Fab 3 to productive readiness because, among other things, the cost of the manufacturing equipment needed to ramp production at Fab 3 over the next several years was significantly higher than the total purchase price of Fab 4, and the time to bring Fab 4 to productive readiness was significantly less than the time required to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness. After the acquisition of Fab 4 was completed, we undertook an analysis of the potential production capacity at Fab 4. The results of the production capacity analysis led us to determine that Fab 3s capacity would not be needed in the foreseeable future and during the September 2002 quarter we committed to a plan to sell Fab 3. We have retained a third party broker to market Fab 3 on our behalf. Accordingly, Fab 3 was classified as an asset held for sale as of September 30, 2002 and maintained that classification at March 31, 2003. We retained an independent third party firm, other than our independent auditors, to complete a fair value appraisal of Fab 3. The independent third party used the market approach and considered sales of comparable properties in determining the fair value of Fab 3. The comparable sales included eight properties, including our purchases of Fab 3 in July 2000 and Fab 4 in August 2002. Based on the results of this appraisal, we recorded an asset impairment charge on Fab 3 of $36.9 million, including estimated costs to sell. The remaining value of $60.2 million is classified as an asset held for sale and is included as a component of other current assets at March 31, 2003. During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, we also recorded an asset impairment charge of $4.6 million to write down certain excess manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 to its net realizable value of $212,000. This manufacturing equipment became "excess" as a result of duplicate equipment acquired in the purchase of Fab 4. The net realizable value for the excess manufacturing equipment was determined based on management estimates. Substantially all of the other manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 has been transferred to and will be used in our other wafer fabrication facilities located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) and Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4). If actual market conditions are less favorable than those estimated in the appraisal, or if future market conditions deteriorate, the net proceeds from the assets held for sale could be less than the amount estimated in the financial statements and additional charges could result prior to or at the time of the sale of the facility. POWERSMART IN PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE During the quarter ended June 30, 2002, purchased in process research and development of $9.3 million, associated with our acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. was written off at the date of the acquisition (June 5, 2002) in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, "APPLICABILITY OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 2 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE PURCHASE METHOD" (FIN 4). The value assigned to the in process research and development was determined by an independent valuation analysis performed by a firm other than our independent auditors. As of the valuation date, there were 15 projects that were considered to be in process. The values of the projects were determined based on analyses of cash flows to be generated by the products that are expected to result from the 33 in process projects. These cash flows were estimated by forecasting total revenues expected from these products then deducting appropriate operating expenses, cash flow adjustments and contributory asset returns to establish a forecast of net return on in process technology. These net returns were substantially reduced to take into account the time value of money and the risks associated with the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in achieving commercial readiness. The above analysis resulted in $9.3 million of value assigned to acquired in process research and development, which was expensed on the acquisition date in accordance with FIN 4. We believe the assumptions used in valuing the in process research and development are reasonable, but are inherently uncertain, and no assurance can be given that the assumptions made will occur. During fiscal 2003, we incurred development costs of approximately $3.2 million related to the acquired in process research and development, and should the projects continue to move toward commercialization, we estimate that future expenditures could approximate $2.0 million over the next few years. None of the in process research and development projects had been completed as of March 31, 2003. THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATING TO OUR ESTIMATED FUTURE EXPENDITURES ON THE ACQUIRED IN PROCESS R&D PROJECTS IS A FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: DELAYS IN COMPLETION OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; CHANGES IN OUR PRIORITIZATION OF PROJECTS; CHANGES IN THE SPECIFICATIONS OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; UNFORESEEN ENGINEERING PROBLEMS; AND UNANTICIPATED COSTS. FISCAL 2002 There were no special charges incurred during fiscal 2002. FISCAL 2001 During the March 2001 quarter, we implemented capacity and cost reduction actions necessitated by adverse business conditions in the semiconductor industry. We reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels. We also decided to close our Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the TelCom transaction, and migrate these test requirements to our Thailand test facility. The capacity reduction at Fabs 1 and 2 was completed by the end of the March 2001 quarter. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was completed by June 30, 2001. These actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.4 million in the March 2001 quarter. These actions were undertaken to reduce both manufacturing capacity and manufacturing costs. The reduction in wafer fab capacity was required due to reduced customer demand. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was undertaken to rationalize our test manufacturing capacity and migrate the test requirements to our more cost effective test facility in Thailand. Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions were: o $4.0 million related to equipment that was written off o $2.1 million related to employee severance costs, and o $0.3 million related to other restructuring costs. On January 16, 2001, we completed our merger with TelCom. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we exchanged each share of TelCom common stock for 0.795 of a share of our common stock. We issued 14,702,184 shares of our common stock and assumed all outstanding TelCom stock options. The transaction was structured as a tax free reorganization and has been accounted for as a pooling of interests. During the March 2001 quarter, we recognized a special charge of $10.9 million for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs included: o $7.3 million associated with investment banking fees o $1.6 million associated with legal and accounting fees o $0.9 million of severance costs, and o $1.1 million related to other costs. All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2001 actions have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided amounts. 34 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) Interest income in fiscal 2003 decreased from interest income in fiscal 2002 as our average invested cash balances and the interest rates applicable to our invested cash balances were lower in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. Interest income in fiscal 2002 decreased from interest income in fiscal 2001, although average invested cash balances were higher in fiscal 2002. The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2002 was primarily driven by significantly lower interest rates applicable to our invested cash balances during fiscal 2002 compared to the interest rates during fiscal 2001. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings. Our effective tax rate was 22.3% in fiscal 2003, 25.5% in fiscal 2002 and 27.2% in fiscal 2001, and is lower than statutory rates in the United States due primarily to lower tax rates at our foreign locations and R&D tax credits. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was due to the impairment portion of the special charges which provided an income tax benefit at a greater rate than our historic effective rate given the 40% tax jurisdiction in which it occurred. Excluding special charges, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2003 was 25.3%. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 related to increased R&D tax credits that were available to us. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that our deferred tax asset will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was $116.5 million. Various taxing authorities in the United States and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon audit in the United States and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Although our tax holidays in Thailand will partially expire in October 2003, our manufacturing operations in Thailand will be conducted using equipment that was invested pursuant to tax holidays that do not begin to expire until September 2006. We believe that the expiration of a portion of our tax holiday in Thailand will not have a material impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2004. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years ended March 31, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET FROM OUR FUTURE TAXABLE INCOME, THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES TO OFFSET ANY POTENTIAL TAX LIABILITIES THAT MAY ARISE UPON AUDIT AND OUR BELIEF THAT THE EXPIRATION OF A PORTION OF OUR THAI TAX HOLIDAY WILL NOT HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FISCAL 2004 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; TAXATION RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS; RESULTS OF ANY CURRENT OR FUTURE AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE OR OTHER TAXING AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; AND THE LEVEL OF OUR TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO UTILIZE OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSET. 35 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We had $216.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments at March 31, 2003, a decrease of $64.1 million from the March 31, 2002 balance. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to the cash used in our June 5, 2002 acquisition of PowerSmart and our August 23, 2002 acquisition of Fab 4, offset by cash generated from operating activities. On February 25, 2003, we elected to terminate our unsecured revolving credit facility that we had maintained with a syndicate of banks since May 2000. The $100.0 million credit facility was due to expire on May 31, 2003. There were no borrowings against the credit facility on February 25, 2003. We did not borrow against the credit facility in either fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, we maintained an unsecured short term line of credit with various financial institutions in Asia totaling $20.0 million (U.S. Dollar equivalent). There were no borrowings under the foreign line of credit as of March 31, 2003, but an allocation of approximately $0.9 million of the available line was made, relating to import guarantees associated with our business in Thailand. There are no covenants related to the foreign line of credit. Net cash provided from operating activities was $260.2 million for fiscal 2003, $178.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $254.4 million for fiscal 2001. The increase in cash flow from operations was primarily due to our results of operations after consideration of non cash special charges. Pre tax income in fiscal 2003 increased approximately $51.9 million compared to fiscal 2002 after consideration of non cash special charges. Net cash used in investing activities was $376.8 million for fiscal 2003, $138.7 million for fiscal 2002 and $399.1 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 was primarily due to our acquisitions of Fab 4 and PowerSmart, increases in our short term investment balances and increased capital expenditures. We enter into hedging transactions from time to time in an attempt to minimize our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations have had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $265.1 million in fiscal 2003, $44.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $441.1 million in fiscal 2001. The primary reasons for the dollar increase in capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 were the purchase of Fab 4, other selective investments to increase our manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and our continued investment in R&D equipment. In each of fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $45 million during the next 12 months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. At March 31, 2003, we had contractual obligations of approximately $11.6 million for the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment. The majority of these contractual obligations mature in the quarter ending June 30, 2003. We expect to finance capital expenditures through our existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, available debt arrangements and other sources of financing, including possible issuances of equity and debt securities depending on market conditions. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE ANTICIPATED LEVEL OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS, THE NATURE OF SUCH EXPENDITURES, THE FINANCING AND SUFFICIENCY OF OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND THE BELIEF THAT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ANTICIPATED TO BE INCURRED OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL PROVIDE US SUFFICIENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY TO MEET OUR CURRENTLY ANTICIPATED NEEDS ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON LINE; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OF OUR CUSTOMERS PRODUCTS; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; ACTUAL LEVELS OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES; THE COSTS AND OUTCOME OF ANY LITIGATION 36 INVOLVING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, CUSTOMER OR OTHER ISSUES; THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND VENDORS; UNINSURED LOSSES; AND THE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE WORLDWIDE MARKETS SERVED BY US. Net cash used in financing activities was $3.1 million for fiscal 2003. Net cash provided by financing activities was $16.1 million for fiscal 2002 and $109.5 million for fiscal 2001. Proceeds from the sale of stock, the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plan were $31.5 million for fiscal 2003, $43.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $118.5 million for fiscal 2001. Repayments on lines of credit were $9.0 million in fiscal 2001. Cash expended for the repurchase of our common stock was $26.5 million in fiscal 2003 and $27.8 million in fiscal 2002. On August 7, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2,500,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2003, we had repurchased 1,264,700 shares of common stock for $27,062,782. As of March 31, 2003, all but 311,855 of the purchased shares had been reissued to fund stock option exercises and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and amount of any future repurchases will depend upon market conditions and corporate considerations. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. The initial quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share was paid on December 6, 2003 in the amount of $4,060,766. A second quarterly dividend payment of $0.02 per share was paid on February 28, 2003 in the amount of $4,068,480. A third quarterly dividend of $0.024 per share was declared on April 24, 2003 and was paid on May 29, 2003 in the amount of $4,893,296. We maintained a net shares settled forward contract during the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001. The table below contains a summary of the share and cash activity under this contract: 2002 2001 (in thousands) Shares received 277 Shares delivered (573) (996) Net shares received (delivered) (573) (719) Cash received $ 14,084 $ 17,190 Cash delivered (128) Net cash received (delivered) $ 14,084 $ 17,062 During fiscal 2002, we made a net delivery of 572,645 shares of our common stock. We also received approximately $14.1 million in connection with an early termination covering 1,650,000 of the shares outstanding under the net shares settled forward contract. We closed out the net shares settled forward contract in its entirety on January 15, 2002 and made a cash payment of $27.8 million to purchase the remaining 1,610,606 shares outstanding under the contract. The purchased shares were held as treasury shares and were used to fund stock option exercises and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan through April 9, 2002. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek additional equity or debt financing during the next 12 months for the capital expenditures required to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, and competitive factors. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. 37 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any transactions, arrangements and other relationships with unconsolidated entities that are reasonably likely to affect our liquidity or capital resources. We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provided off balance sheet financing, liquidity or market or credit risk support, engage in leasing, hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to liability that is not reflected on the face of the financial statements. See Note 18 of the financial statements regarding our lease commitments. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS SFAS 146 In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 (SFAS No. 146), ACCOUNTING FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES. SFAS No. 146 supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force No. 94 3 (EITF 94 3), LIABILITY RECOGNITION FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER COSTS TO EXIT AN ACTIVITY (INCLUDING CERTAIN COSTS INCURRED IN A RESTRUCTURING). SFAS 146 eliminates the provisions of EITF 94 3 that required a liability to be recognized for certain exit or disposal activities at the date an entity committed to an exit plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recognized when the liability is incurred. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. SFAS 148 In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION TRANSITION AND DISCLOSURE. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION, to provide alternative methods of transition to SFAS No. 123s fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 and APB 28, INTERIM FINANCIAL REPORTING, to require disclosure in the summary of significant accounting policies of the effects of an entitys accounting policy with respect to stock based employee compensation on reported net income and earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements. While SFAS No. 148 does not amend SFAS No. 123 to require companies to account for employee stock options using the fair value method, the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are applicable to all companies with stock based employee compensation, regardless of whether they account for that compensation using the fair value method of SFAS No. 123 or the intrinsic value method of APB 25. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, we have elected to continue to utilize the accounting method prescribed by APB 25 and have adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 as of March 31, 2003. FIN 45 In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees." FIN 45 requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. We will apply FIN 45 to guarantees, if any, issued after December 15, 2002. At adoption, FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or financial position. FIN 45 also requires guarantors to disclose certain information for guarantees, including product warranties, outstanding at March 31, 2003. FIN 46 In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES, AN INTERPRETATION OF ACCOUNTING RESEARCH BULLETIN NO. 51." FIN No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities, or VIEs, to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN No. 46 is effective for all VIEs created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN No. 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. We currently have no contractual relationship or other business relationship with a variable interest entity and, therefore, we do not expect the adoption of FIN No. 46 to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 38 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, was $208.7 million as of March 31, 2003, and $247.6 million as of March 31, 2002. These securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from the levels of March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002, the decline in the fair value of our investment portfolio would not be material given that the our investments typically have interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to current market rates. Additionally, we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows. We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would not be material given that we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations. During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this Item 7A, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. 
 
