Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, beginning below at page 22, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the matters reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement. Item 1. BUSINESS We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product portfolio comprises our PICmicro fieldreprogrammable (Flash) RISC microcontrollers which serve 8 bit and 16 bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of high performance linear and mixed signal, power management and thermal management devices. We also offer complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, and application specific standard products (ASSPs). Our synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications and a growing demand for high performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified. Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In this Form 10 K, we, us, and our each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224 6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792 7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com. We post the following filings on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: Our annual report on Form 10 K Our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q Our current reports on Form 8 K, and Any amendments to the above listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All SEC filings on our Web site are available free of charge. The information on our Web site is not incorporated into this Form 10 K. Industry Background Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit based embedded control systems that enable them to: differentiate their products replace less efficient electromechanical control devices reduce the number of components in their system add product functionality decrease time to market for their products, and significantly reduce product cost. 3 Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: automotive comfort, safety and entertainment applications remote control devices handheld tools home appliances portable computers robotics cordless and cellular telephone accessories motor controls security systems educational and entertainment devices, and consumer electronics. Embedded control systems also facilitate the emergence of new classes of products when applications not previously existing become possible. Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self contained computer on a chip consisting of a central processing unit, non volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers, non volatile memory components such as EEPROMs, and various analog and interface products. The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market. Microcontrollers are currently available in 4 bit through 32 bit architectures. Although 4 bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack the minimum functionality required in most applications and are typically used in relatively simple applications. While traditional 16 bit and 32 bit microcontrollers provide very high performance and functionality, they are generally too expensive for many high volume embedded control applications. As a result, many manufacturers of competitive, high volume products have found 8 bit microcontrollers to be the most cost effective embedded control solution. Most microcontrollers shipped today are ROM based and must be programmed by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 8 12 week lead times, based on market conditions, for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory shutdowns when changes in the firmware are required. To address these issues, some suppliers offer programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the customer in the customers manufacturing line, thus significantly reducing lead time and inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur. While these microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM based microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the last several years to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now available for little to no premium over ROM based microcontrollers, thus providing significant value to microcontroller customers. As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers are the fastest growing segment of the microcontroller market. Our Products Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including: microcontrollers digital signal controllers high performance linear and mixed signal devices power management and thermal management devices patented KEELOQ security ASSPs smart battery management ASSPs, and Serial EEPROMs We provide highly cost effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost effective embedded control product integration by our customers. 4 Microcontrollers We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique, proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC brand name. We believe that our PIC product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market. We have shipped over 3 billion PIC microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our PIC products are designed for applications requiring field programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of memory technology configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and ease of use. Our performance results from an exclusive product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual bus architecture; a Reduced Instruction Set Computer, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single bus, Complex Instruction Set Computer architectures, referred to as CISC. With over 260 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the entire performance range of 8 bit microcontrollers. Additionally, our scalable product architecture allows us to successfully target both the entry level of the 16 bit microcontroller market, as well as the 4 bit microcontroller marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable market. We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC family of microcontroller products. Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user programmability feature by incorporating non volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings. Digital Signal Controllers We recently began production shipments of our Digital Signal Controller product line. Our family of dsPIC Digital Signal Controllers, currently 19 products, integrates control features of high performance 16 bit microcontrollers with the processing capabilities of Digital Signal Processors (DSPs). During the last three fiscal years, all of our Digital Signal Controller product development has been focused on reprogrammable (Flash) products. These controllers integrate a wide variety of peripheral functions making them suitable for a large number of embedded control applications. Our dsPIC product family offers a broad suite of hardware and software development tools, software application libraries, development boards and reference designs to ease and expedite the customer application development cycle. With its field re programmability, large selection of peripheral functions, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC controllers will significantly enlarge our addressable market. Development Systems We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy to learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC microcontroller and dsPIC Digital Signal Controllers for specific applications and are a key factor for obtaining design wins. Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows environment on standard PC hardware. These tools range from entry level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in circuit emulation hardware. Customers moving from entry level designs to those requiring real time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC devices since all of our systems share the same integrated development environment. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product architecture. Currently, there are more than 150 third party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third party, development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we have shipped more than 358,000 development systems. 5 ASSPs Our application specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are specialized products designed to perform specific end user applications, compared to our other products that are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP device families currently include, among others, our KEELOQ family of secure data transmission products and smart battery management products. Analog and Interface Products Our analog and interface products now consist of several families with over 420 power management, linear, mixed signal, thermal management and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2005, our mixed signal analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 9,500 end customers. We continue marketing and selling our analog and interface products into our existing microcontroller customer base, which we refer to as our analog attach strategy, as well as to new customers. In addition to our attach strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional PIC microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and all of our products, based on an application segment approach, targeted to solve different problems in development of our customers products. Memory Products Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non volatile program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified frequently or retained for long periods. Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small devices. We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions. Our memory products also feature long data retention and high erase/write endurance. Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and much of our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin. Our manufacturing facilities are located in: Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) Chandler, Arizona (probe operations) Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3) (non operational) Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4), and Bangkok, Thailand (assembly and test). Wafer Fabrication Fab 2 currently produces 8 inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes between 0.35 and 5.0 microns. During fiscal 2005, Fab 2 operated at approximately 96% of its capacity compared to approximately 91% during fiscal 2004. Operating at higher percentages of capacity has a positive impact on our operating results due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in wafer fabrication manufacturing. 6 On June 30, 2003, we completed closure of our Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrated certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into our Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer fabrication facility. The facility where Fab 1 is located is an integral part of our overall campus in Chandler, Arizona. Within this same facility resides our wafer probe, mask making and other manufacturing related activities. We have no specific plans for utilizing the space formerly housing the wafer fabrication operations, and intend to leave it in an idle status. Fab 3 is currently non operational and being held for future use. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Charges Fab 3 Impairment Charge, below at page 33, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3. Fab 4 was acquired by us in August 2002 and began production on October 31, 2003. Fab 4 produces 8 inch wafers using 0.5 micron manufacturing processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns. Fab 4 has reached a level of production where costs and efficiencies have met our initial expectations. Fab 4 costs on comparable technologies are in fact lower than those of Fab 2. We have a significant amount of clean room capacity and equipment still to be placed in service at Fab 4 that was acquired in the original acquisition of Fab 4 that we can bring on line in the future to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 3 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any such transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. We also contract with third party wafer foundries to fabricate less than 3% of our total production. On a strategic basis, we will continue to use third party foundries to shorten our product design cycle on certain key technologies and products. Assembly and Test We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. At March 31, 2005, approximately 70% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility. As of March 31, 2005, our Thailand facility was testing substantially all of our wafer production. A 67,000 square foot expansion area that was placed in service in fiscal 2005 provides the Thailand facility with sufficient space for our projected expansion needs in fiscal 2006. We also use third party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced Computer Aided Design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2005, our focus on manufacturing productivity allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. 7 Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources could harm our business. Our reliance on third parties for a portion of wafer fabrication and assembly and testing involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of these third party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. The foregoing statements related to the combined capacity of Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 3 providing sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to future increases in demand and the transition to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs are forward looking statements. Actual results could differ materially because of the following factors, among others: changes in utilization of our current manufacturing capacity; unanticipated costs in ramping production at Fab 4; our ability to increase production at Fab 2; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the Portland, Oregon area; changes in demand for products and the products of our customers; supply disruption; absorption of fixed costs, labor and other direct manufacturing costs; fluctuations in production yields; production efficiencies and overall capacity utilization; changes in product mix; competitive pressures on prices; labor unrest; political instability and expropriation; and other general economic conditions. At the end of fiscal 2005, we owned long lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment and goodwill) in the United States amounting to $622.3 million and $102.9 million in other countries, including $100.6 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2004, we owned long lived assets in the United States amounting to $608.3 million and $113.2 million in other countries, including $111.7 million in Thailand. Research and Development (R&D) We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, ASSPs, memory and mixed signal products, new development systems, software and application specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. In fiscal 2005, our R&D expenses were $93.0 million, compared to $85.4 million in fiscal 2004 and $88.0 million in fiscal 2003. Sales and Distribution General We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end user support. 8 Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. In fiscal 2005, we derived 65% of our net sales from sales through distributors and 35% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEM customers. Distributors accounted for 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. Our second largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, one distributor accounted for 12% of our net sales. No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003. Distributors generally have broad based rights to return product to us. As revenue on distributor shipments is not recognized until the distributors sell our product to their end customers, distributor returns have no impact on our revenue. We also grant certain credits to our third party distributors and also offer these distributors price protection. The credits are granted to the distributors on specifically identified pieces of the distributors business to allow them to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information regarding the sale to their end customer. The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price from us to our distributors for the products and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers. We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection is granted to third party distributors on the inventory that they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered. When we reduce the selling price of our products, it allows the distributors to claim a credit against their outstanding accounts receivables balances based on the new price of the inventory they have on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There is no revenue recognition impact from the price protection activity. We do not offer material incentive programs to our third party distributors. We do not have long term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2005 % 2004 % 2003 % Americas $ 248,881 29.4 $ 219,641 31.4 $ 219,504 33.7 Europe 232,493 27.4 194,187 27.8 177,727 27.3 Asia 365,562 43.2 285,432 40.8 254,231 39.0 Total Sales $ 846,936 100.0 % $ 699,260 100.0 % $ 651,462 100.0 % Sales to customers in Asia have increased as a percentage of sales from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 and from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005. We attribute this primarily to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 73% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 71% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America. 9 Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales in fiscal 2005, approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2005, sales to customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003. Our international sales are predominately U.S. dollar denominated. Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to date. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks as described under the heading, We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, on page 16. Backlog As of April 29, 2005, our backlog was approximately $166.9 million, compared to $209.9 million as of April 23, 2004. Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months. We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customers option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control applications. Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is generally increasing over time and such increased capacity or improved product availability could adversely affect our competitive position. We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: speed functionality density power consumption reliability packaging alternatives price, and availability. We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: ease of use functionality of application development systems dependable delivery and quality, and technical service and support. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2005 and 2023. We also have numerous additional United States and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our 10 patents. Our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and require significant attention from management, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control adequately the storage, use and disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Employees As of April 30, 2005, we had 3,943 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 23, 2005: Name Age Position Steve Sanghi 49 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Steven V. Drehobl 43 Vice President, Security, Microcontroller and Technology Division David S. Lambert 53 Vice President, Fab Operations Mitchell R. Little 52 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications Ganesh Moorthy 45 Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division Gordon W. Parnell 55 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Richard J. Simoncic 41 Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the Security, Microcontroller, and Technology Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. 11 Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President, Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President, Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. Joining Microchip in 1989, Mr. Little also held positions with the Memory Products Division including Vice President of that division. Mr. Little holds a BSET degree from United Electronics Institute. Mr. Moorthy has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division, since December 2003. From November 2001 to December 2003, he served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Automotive Division. From August 2000 through November 2001, he served as Chairman and CEO of Cybercilium, Inc., a business intelligence solutions provider for mid market companies. From 1981 through July 2000, Mr. Moorthy worked at Intel Corporation in various operations and management capacities, including his last assignment as Director of Operations for Intels Home Products Group. Mr. Moorthy holds an MBA in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Bombay. Mr. Parnell has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993 to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland. Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Additional Factors That May Affect Our Results of Operations When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory levels of inventories at our customers changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields our ability to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity competitive developments including pricing pressures the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter the level of sell through of our products through distribution changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues disruptions in our business or our customers businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system property damage or other losses which are not covered by insurance, and general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally. 12 We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, we have proven our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our backlog visibility on future product shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results may suffer. Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for embedded control applications. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications product introductions by our competitors the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the needs of our customers, and general market and economic conditions. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and non proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time. 13 We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. We have experienced in the past and expect to continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. Our business is highly dependent on selling through distributors. Sales through distributors accounted for 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2005, 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. Our two largest distributors together accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 and approximately 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. We do not have long term agreements with our distributors and our distributors may terminate their relationships with us with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including: proper new product selection timely completion and introduction of new product designs development of support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and market acceptance of our customers end products. Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel is intense in our market. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. We are dependent on several third party contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us. We use several third party contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our third party contractors could harm our business and operating results. 14 Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any third party contractor were to experience financial, operations or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. In such case, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. In such event, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. Our operating results may be impacted by the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period to period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period to period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. From October 2001 to October 2004, we were involved in patent infringement litigation with Philips Corporation which has since been settled. However, as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any one of them and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses related to the defense of such claims or any requirement to pay damages claims. We do have product liability insurance, but there is no certainty that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty or product liability claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. 15 We do not have long term contracts with our customers. We do not typically enter into long term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of any early termination of a contract by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we would be able to rapidly replace that revenue source which could harm our financial results. Business interruptions could harm our business. Operations at any of our manufacturing facilities, or at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis. If this occurs, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2005, approximately 73% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. During fiscal 2004, approximately 71% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use various foreign third party contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand. Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including: political, social and economic instability public health conditions trade restrictions and changes in tariffs import and export license requirements and restrictions difficulties in staffing and managing international operations employment regulations disruptions in international transport or delivery fluctuations in currency exchange rates difficulties in collecting receivables economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and potentially adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. We are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities. 16 Further, certain of our customers shipping their products into European markets are also subject to governmental environmental regulations such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) which will be effective July 1, 2006, and the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. These directives focus on limiting the amounts of certain elements, such as lead, in electrical devices, and providing for the proper disposal of the electrical devices and their components. The inability of this sub set of our customers to use Microchip products which contain lead after July 2006 may adversely affect our results of operations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and related regulations have resulted in increased costs to us. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and recent rules enacted and proposed by the SEC, NASDAQ and the NYSE, have resulted in significantly increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. In particular, complying with the internal control audit requirements of Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 has resulted in increased internal efforts and significantly higher fees from our independent accounting firm. This report on Form 10 K contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2005. This Form 10 K also contains an attestation and report by our auditors with respect to our managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with Section 404 is an ongoing process and will be required for each future fiscal year. We expect that the ongoing compliance with Section 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses with not be identified in future periods. Any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Recent regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our earnings and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options and other long term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages and have accounted for them using the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. We believe that stock options and other long term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long term stockholder value and, through the use no of vesting, encourage employees to remain with Microchip. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payments, (SFAS 123R) which changed U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in such a way to require us to record a charge to earnings for the fair value of employee stock option grants and other share based compensation beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. This regulation will negatively impact our earnings for those share based awards that vest beginning in fiscal 2007. For example, recording a charge for employee stock options under SFAS 123 would have decreased our net income by $37.2 million, $36.8 million and $36.2 million for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The impact on net income of SFAS 123R may differ significantly than the impact as calculated under SFAS 123. Furthermore, adoption of SFAS 123R will require us to make certain assumptions and judgments in the valuation of stock options that we may grant in the future. A change in any of those assumptions or judgments could change the compensation expense that is charged against our earnings and, consequently, adversely affect our results of operations. See also Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Significant Accounting Policies: Share Based Payment. In addition, recent regulations implemented by The NASDAQ Stock Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans as well as recent regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us to grant equity based awards to employees in the future. To the extent that these or other new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur compensation costs, productivity losses, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: 17 quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors changes in analysts estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and worldwide economic and financial conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market price of our common stock. Item 2. PROPERTIES At March 31, 2005, we owned the facilities described below: Location Approx. Total Sq. Ft. Uses Chandler, Arizona (1) 415,000 Executive and Administrative Offices; Wafer Probe; R&D Center; Sales and Marketing; and Computer and Service Functions Tempe, Arizona 379,000 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 2); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Puyallup, Washington (2) 700,000 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 3); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing (non operational; held for future use) Gresham, Oregon (3) 826,500 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 4); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Chacherngsao, Thailand (4) 290,000 Test and Assembly; Sample Center; Warehousing; and Administrative Offices (1) On June 30, 2003, we closed Fab 1 on our Chandler campus, and integrated certain of the personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2. (2) Currently non operational and being held for future use. Fab 3 consists of manufacturing buildings and land, with no equipment. (3) Acquired in August 2002. Production commenced on October 31, 2003. (4) Located in the Alphatechnopolis Industrial Park near Bangkok on land to which we expect to acquire title in accordance with our agreement with the landowner. Progress towards obtaining full title of the land has been delayed due to a complex financial restructuring situation relating to the seller of the land. At this time it is not possible to estimate when, or if, full title transfer will be completed. We have provided reserves that we estimate will be adequate to obtain full title. Such reserves are set at the estimated fair value of the land. In addition to the facilities we own, we lease several research and development facilities and sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately $0.4 million. We currently believe that our existing facilities will be adequate to meet our production requirements for the next 12 months. The foregoing statements related to the acquisition of title to the land on which the Thailand facility is situated and the adequacy of existing facilities for the next 12 months are forward looking statements. Actual results could differ materially because of the following factors, among others: developments in the financial restructuring of the seller of the land where the Thailand facility is situated; demand for our products; fluctuations in production yields, production efficiencies and overall capacity utilization; competitive pressures on prices; political instability and expropriation; and other economic conditions. See also the factors set forth under Item 1 Business Additional Factors That May Affect Results of Operations, beginning at page 12 of this report. 18 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome of these actions is not presently determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm our business and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the The NASDAQ National Market under the symbol MCHP. Our common stock has been quoted on The NASDAQ National Market since our initial public offering on March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market for the last two years. Fiscal 2005 High Low Fiscal 2004 High Low First Quarter $ 32.63 $ 26.80 First Quarter $ 24.86 $ 18.15 Second Quarter 30.61 25.26 Second Quarter 28.19 23.66 Third Quarter 30.63 26.03 Third Quarter 36.03 24.56 Fourth Quarter 28.49 24.28 Fourth Quarter 34.67 25.29 On May 16, 2005, there were approximately 505 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held in nominee names. We have been declaring and paying quarterly cash dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Our total cash dividends paid were $43.0 million, $23.3 million and $8.1 million in fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. The following table sets forth our quarterly cash dividends per common share and the total amount of the dividend payment each quarter in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts). Fiscal 2005 Dividends per Common Share Amount of Dividend Payment Fiscal 2004 Dividends per Common Share Amount of Dividend Payment First Quarter $ 0.040 $ 8,267 First Quarter $ 0.024 $ 4,893 Second Quarter 0.046 9,473 Second Quarter 0.024 4,919 Third Quarter 0.052 10,752 Third Quarter 0.030 6,223 Fourth Quarter 0.070 14,508 Fourth Quarter 0.035 7,284 On April 27, 2005, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.095 per share, which will be paid on June 3, 2005 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2005 and is estimated to be $19.8 million. Our Board is free to change its dividend practices at any time and to decrease or increase the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. 19 The following table sets forth our purchases of our common stock and the information below the table designates the repurchase program that the shares were purchased under: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs January 1, 2005 January 31, 2005 49,300 $ 24.395 49,300 1,615,100 February 1, 2005 February 28, 2005 $ 1,615,100 March 1, 2005 March 31, 2005 $ 1,615,100 On April 22, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2,500,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2005, 1,615,100 shares related to this authorization remained available to be purchased under this program. Please refer to Item 12, Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management And Related Stockholder Matters, at page 42 below, for the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S K with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2005. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the five year period ended March 31, 2005 in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Form 10 K. Our consolidated statements of income data for each of the years in the three year period ended March 31, 2005, and the balance sheet data as of March 31, 2005 and 2004, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K (for information below all amounts are in thousands, except per share data). Statement of Income Data (1): Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 846,936 $ 699,260 $ 651,462 $ 571,254 $ 715,730 Cost of sales 362,961 349,301 299,227 284,518 335,016 Research and development 93,040 85,389 87,963 81,650 78,595 Selling, general and administrative 111,188 92,411 89,355 82,615 102,620 Special charges (2) 21,100 865 50,800 17,358 Operating income 258,647 171,294 124,117 122,471 182,141 Interest income (expense), net 16,864 4,639 3,344 4,344 12,741 Other income (expense), net 1,757 1,963 871 376 2,080 Net loss in equity investment (2) (2,190 ) Gain on sale of investment (2) 1,427 Income before income taxes 277,268 177,896 128,332 127,191 196,199 Income tax provision 63,483 40,634 28,657 32,377 53,363 Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 213,785 137,262 99,675 94,814 142,836 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (3) 11,443 Net income $ 213,785 $ 137,262 $ 88,232 $ 94,814 $ 142,836 Basic net income per common share $ 1.03 $ 0.67 $ 0.44 $ 0.48 $ 0.74 Diluted net income per common share $ 1.01 $ 0.65 $ 0.42 $ 0.45 $ 0.70 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.208 $ 0.113 $ 0.040 $ $ Basic common shares outstanding 206,740 206,032 202,483 199,184 193,632 Diluted common shares outstanding 211,962 212,172 210,646 208,907 205,190 20 Balance Sheet Data (1): Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Working capital $ 768,683 $ 613,894 $ 393,979 $ 381,211 $ 176,936 Total assets 1,817,554 1,622,143 1,428,275 1,275,600 1,161,349 Long term obligations, less current portion Stockholders equity 1,485,734 1,320,517 1,178,949 1,075,779 942,848 (1) On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. and accounted for the merger as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, the selected financial data has been restated to include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, and we have conformed the TelCom financial data to a March 31 year end for the March 31, 2001 fiscal year. (2) There were no special charges during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002. Detailed discussions of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are contained in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Detailed explanations of the special charges for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001 are provided below. The following table presents a summary of special charges for the five year period ended March 31, 2005: Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Intellectual property settlement $ 21,100 $ $ $ $ Contract cancellation, severance and other costs related to Fab 1 closure 865 Fab 3 impairment charge 41,500 In process research and development charge 9,300 Restructuring charges 6,409 TelCom merger charges 10,949 Totals $ 21,100 $ 865 $ 50,800 $ $ 17,358 (3) We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Change in Accounting Principle, beginning at page 36 below, for a discussion of this change. Fiscal 2001 During the March 2001 quarter, we implemented capacity and cost reduction actions necessitated by adverse business conditions in the semiconductor industry. We reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels. We also decided to close our Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the TelCom transaction, and migrate these test requirements to our Thailand test facility. The capacity reduction at Fabs 1 and 2 was completed by the end of the March 2001 quarter. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was completed by June 30, 2001. These actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.4 million in the March 2001 quarter. These actions were undertaken to reduce both manufacturing capacity and manufacturing costs. The reduction in wafer fab capacity was required due to reduced customer demand. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was undertaken to rationalize our test manufacturing capacity and migrate the test requirements to our more cost effective test facility in Thailand. 21 Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions were: $4.0 million related to equipment that was written off $2.1 million related to employee severance costs, and $0.3 million related to other restructuring costs. On January 16, 2001, we completed our merger with TelCom. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we exchanged each share of TelCom common stock for 0.795 of a share of our common stock. We issued 14,702,184 shares of our common stock and assumed all outstanding TelCom stock options. The transaction was structured as a tax free reorganization and has been accounted for as a pooling of interests. During the March 2001 quarter, we recognized a special charge of $10.9 million for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs included: $7.3 million associated with investment banking fees $1.6 million associated with legal and accounting fees $0.9 million of severance costs, and $1.1 million related to other costs. All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2001 actions have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided amounts. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as anticipate, believe, plan, expect, estimate, future, intend and similar expressions to identify forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in this Item 7, and under Item 1 Business Additional Factors That May Affect Our Results of Operations, beginning at page 12, above, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement. We begin our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of Microchips overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. In the next section, beginning at page 26, we discuss our Results of Operations for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004, and for fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled Liquidity and Capital Resources, Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Item 1 Business; Item 6 Selected Financial Data; and 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as anticipate, believe, plan, expect, estimate, future, intend and similar expressions to identify forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in this Item 7, and under Item 1 Business Additional Factors That May Affect Our Results of Operations, beginning at page 12, above, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement. We begin our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of Microchips overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. In the next section, beginning at page 26, we discuss our Results of Operations for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004, and for fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled Liquidity and Capital Resources, Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Item 1 Business; Item 6 Selected Financial Data; and 
 
