Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note Regarding Forward looking Statements." Our actual results could differ materially from the results described in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Item 1A Risk Factors," beginning below at page 11, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the matters reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement.Item 1. BUSINESS We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product portfolio comprises 8 bit, 16 bit, and 32 bit PIC microcontrollers and 16 bit dsPIC digital signal controllers, which feature on board Flash (reprogrammable) memory technology. In addition, we offer a broad spectrum of high performance linear, mixed signal, power management, thermal management, RF, safety and security, and interface devices, as well as serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Parallel Flash memories. We also license Flash IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products. Our synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications worldwide and a growing demand for high performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified. Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In this Form 10 K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224 6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792 7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com. We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10 Kour quarterly reports on Form 10 Qour current reports on Form 8 Kour proxy statementany amendments to the above listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934All SEC filings on our website are available free of charge. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10 K.Recent DevelopmentsOn May 2, 2012, we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSC) for $37.00 per share in cash, which represents a total equity value of about $939 million, and a total enterprise value of about $766 million, after excluding SMSCs cash and investments on its balance sheet at February 29, 2012 of approximately $173 million. The acquisition has been approved by our Board of Directors and by the SMSC Board of Directors and is expected to close in the third quarter of calendar 2012, subject to approval by SMSC stockholders, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. SMSC is a leading developer of Smart Mixed Signal Connectivity solutions. SMSC employs a unique systems level approach that incorporates a broad set of technologies and intellectual property to deliver differentiating products to its customers. SMSC is focused on delivering connectivity solutions that enable the proliferation of data in automobiles, consumer devices, PCs and other applications. SMSCs feature rich products drive a number of industry standards and include USB, MOST automotive networking, Kleer and JukeBlox wireless audio, embedded system control and analog solutions, including thermal management and RightTouch capacitive sensing. SMSC is headquartered in New York and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe.Industry Background Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit based embedded control systems that enable them to:3Table of Contents differentiate their productsreplace less efficient electromechanical control devicesreduce the number of components in their systemadd product functionalityreduce the system level energy consumptiondecrease time to market for their productssignificantly reduce product costEmbedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: automotive comfort, safety and entertainment applicationsremote control deviceshandheld toolshome appliancesportable computersroboticsaccessoriescordless and cellular telephonesmotor controlssecurity systemseducational and entertainment devicesconsumer electronicspower suppliestouch screensmedical productsEmbedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self contained computer on a chip consisting of a central processing unit, non volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers, non volatile memory components such as EEPROMs, Flash memory and various analog and interface products. The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the larger segments of the semiconductor market at approximately $15 billion in calendar year 2011. Microcontrollers are currently available in 4 bit through 32 bit architectures. 4 bit microcontrollers are the smallest segment of the microcontroller market and have been in decline for several years. 8 bit microcontrollers remain very cost effective for a wide range of high volume embedded control applications and, as a result, continue to represent a significant portion of the overall microcontroller market. 16 bit and 32 bit microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. Our Products Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including: microcontrollersdevelopment toolsanalog and interface productsmemory productstechnology licensingWe provide highly cost effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration, and ease of development, enabling timely and cost effective embedded control product integration by our customers. 4Table of ContentsMicrocontrollers We offer a broad family of proprietary microcontroller products marketed under the PIC brand name. We believe that our PIC product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market. We have shipped over 10 billion PIC microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our PIC products are designed for applications requiring field programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. Our performance results from a product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual bus architecture; a Reduced Instruction Set Computer, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single bus, Complex Instruction Set Computer architectures, referred to as CISC. With close to 900 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the 8 bit, 16 bit, and 32 bit microcontroller markets. Digital Signal Controllers (DSC) are a subset of our 16 bit microcontroller offering. Our dsPIC DSC families integrate the control features of high performance 16 bit microcontrollers with the computation capabilities of Digital Signal Processors (DSPs), along with a wide variety of peripheral functions making them suitable for a large number of embedded control applications. Our dsPIC product family offers a broad suite of hardware and software development tools, software application libraries, development boards and reference designs to ease and expedite the customer application development cycle. With its field reprogrammability, large selection of peripheral functions, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC DSCs expand our addressable market.We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC family of microcontroller products. Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our small footprint, flexible, extreme low power, low cost user programmability feature by incorporating non volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings. Development Tools We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy to learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC microcontroller and dsPIC DSC for specific applications and, we believe, are a key factor for obtaining design wins. Our family of development tools for PIC and dsPIC products range from entry level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in circuit emulation capability. Customers moving from entry level designs to those requiring real time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC devices since all of our PIC and dsPIC development tools share the same integrated development environment. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our standard microcontroller product architecture. Currently, there are approximately 200 third party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of both our and third party development tools by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we have shipped almost 1.3 million development tools. Analog and Interface Products Our analog and interface products consist of several families with approximately 800 power management, linear, mixed signal, thermal management, RF Linear drivers, safety and security, and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2012, our mixed signal analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 18,500 end customers. We market and sell our analog and interface products into our microcontroller customer base, to customers who use microcontrollers from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not fit our traditional PIC microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and all of our products, based on an application segment approach targeted to provide customers with application solutions. 5Table of ContentsMemory Products Our memory products consist of serial electrically erasable programmable read only memory (referred to as Serial EEPROMs), Serial Flash Memories, Parallel Flash Memories and Serial SRAM memories. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Serial SRAM have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded control market, complementing our microcontroller offerings. Technology Licensing Our technology licensing business includes license fees and royalties associated with technology licenses for the use of our SuperFlash technology and fees for engineering services. We license our SuperFlash technology to foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced microcontroller products, gate array, RF and analog products that require embedded flash.Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control, resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin.Our manufacturing facilities are located in: Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4)Chandler, Arizona (wafer probe)Bangkok, Thailand (wafer probe, assembly and test)Wafer Fabrication Fab 2 currently produces 8 inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes from 0.35 to 5.0 microns. During the first half of fiscal 2012, Fab 2 operated at or above normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be in the range of 90% to 95% of the actual capacity of the installed equipment. During the second half of fiscal 2012, due to weak economic and semiconductor industry conditions, Fab 2 operated slightly below normal capacity levels. Fab 2s capacity to support more advanced technologies was increased during fiscal 2012 by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment as required. Fab 4 currently produces 8 inch wafers using predominantly 0.22 to 0.5 micron manufacturing processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns. Similar to Fab 2, Fab 4 was operating at or above normal capacity levels during the first half of fiscal 2012 and slightly below normal capacity levels during the second half of fiscal 2012. The capacity of Fab 4 increased during fiscal 2012 to support our most advanced technology and support new technology development. The capacity increase was completed by starting up more of the tools we acquired when we purchased Fab 4 in fiscal 2003 and installing new tools. A significant amount of additional clean room capacity and equipment acquired with Fab 4 can be brought on line in the future to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand over the next several years with modest incremental capital expenditures. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. We have, in recent years, outsourced a portion of our wafer production requirements to third party wafer foundries to augment our internal manufacturing capabilities. As a result of our acquisition of SST in fiscal 2011, we have become more reliant on outside wafer foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements. In fiscal 2012, approximately 20% of our sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. 6Table of ContentsWafer Probe, Assembly and Test We perform wafer probe, product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also perform a limited amount of wafer probe at our Chandler, Arizona facility. As of March 31, 2012, approximately 67% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facilities. As of March 31, 2012, approximately 95% of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand facilities. We use third party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. During the first half of fiscal 2012, we operated at normal capacity levels and selectively increased our probe, assembly and test capacity at our Thailand facilities. During the second half of fiscal 2012, due to weak economic and semiconductor industry conditions, we operated at levels below the total operating capacity of our Thailand facilities. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller, analog and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic, analog and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for our microcontroller, analog, and non volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer aided design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and our effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work in process and finished goods inventory. At the end of fiscal 2012, we owned identifiable long lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment) in the U.S. with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $314.3 million and $202.3 million in other countries, including $186.1 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2011, we owned identifiable long lived assets in the U.S. with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $330.0 million and $210.5 million in other countries, including $193.7 million in Thailand.Research and Development (R&D) We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the development of microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, Serial EEPROM memory, NOR FLASH Memory, Embedded FLASH technologies, RF products, analog and interface products, development systems, user interface products, software and application specific software libraries. We are also developing design and process technologies to enable new products and innovative features as well as achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. In fiscal 2012, our R&D expenses were $182.7 million, compared to $170.6 million in fiscal 2011 and $120.8 million in fiscal 2010. R&D expenses included share based compensation expense of $14.7 million in fiscal 2012, $12.9 million in fiscal 2011 and $12.2 million in fiscal 2010.7Table of ContentsSales and Distribution General We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. In fiscal 2012, we derived 59% of our net sales through distributors and 41% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. In fiscal 2011, we derived 58% of our net sales through distributors and 42% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. In fiscal 2010, we derived 61% of our net sales through distributors and 39% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012 and 2011 and 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. We do not have long term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may each terminate our relationship with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.Sales by Geography Sales by geography for fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2012 % 2011 % 2010 %Americas $290,392 21.0 $310,735 20.9 $231,398 24.4Europe 319,881 23.1 334,911 22.5 237,354 25.1Asia 772,903 55.9 841,559 56.6 478,977 50.5Total Sales $1,383,176 100.0 $1,487,205 100.0 $947,729 100.0Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 82% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, approximately 80% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 77% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 24% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. Sales to customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 15% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010.8Table of ContentsOur international sales are substantially all U.S. dollar denominated. Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties to date as a result of export restrictions. The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, in recent periods, changes in global economic and semiconductor industry conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. Backlog As of April 30, 2012, our backlog was approximately $328.8 million, compared to $544.9 million as of April 30, 2011. Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months. We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a relatively short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customers option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China, Korea and Taiwan. We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis.We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: speedfunctionalitydensitylow power consumptionreliabilitypackaging alternativesWe believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: ease of usefunctionality of application development systemsdependable delivery, quality and availabilitytechnical and innovative service and supportpriceWe believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2012 and 2030. We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While we intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful intellectual 9Table of Contentsproperty protection or any commercial advantage to us. Pursuing violations of our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex business area involving patent law, trademark law, copyright law and the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that all licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and require significant attention from management, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in significant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Employees As of March 31, 2012, we had 6,923 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good.Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2012:Name Age PositionSteve Sanghi 56 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerGanesh Moorthy 52 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating OfficerJ. Eric Bjornholt 41 Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerStephen V. Drehobl 50 Vice President, Security, Microcontroller and Technology DivisionDavid S. Lambert 60 Vice President, Fab OperationsMitchell R. Little 60 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and ApplicationsRichard J. Simoncic 48 Vice President, Analog and Interface Products DivisionMr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. Since May 2004, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of Xyratex Ltd., a storage and network 10Table of Contentstechnology company. Since May 2007, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology). Mr. Moorthy has served as Chief Operating Officer since June 2009, as Executive Vice President since October 2006 and as a Vice President in various roles since he joined Microchip in 2001. Prior to this time, he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Mumbai, India. Mr. Bjornholt has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2009. He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995. Mr. Bjornholt holds a Masters degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of Arizona. Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the Security, Microcontroller, and Technology Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1989 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. He has been employed by Microchip since 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since September 1993. Mr. Little holds a B.S. degree in Engineering Technology from United Electronics Institute. Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles. Joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Item 1A. RISK FACTORSWhen evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally;changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers;changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;levels of inventories at our customers;risk of excess and obsolete inventories;our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;availability of raw materials and equipment;competitive developments including pricing pressures;unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;the level of sell through of our products through distribution;fluctuations in the mix of products;changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;announcements of significant acquisitions or any delays or unexpected developments with respect to previously announced acquisitions;11Table of Contentsdisruptions in our business or our customers businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business;fluctuations in commodity prices; andproperty damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and recent economic uncertainty have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we reduced wafer starts in both Fab 2 and Fab 4, implemented rotating unpaid time off and had multiple planned shutdowns in our Thailand facility to help control inventory levels in response to adverse economic conditions. This lower capacity utilization resulted in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. From the March 2010 quarter through the September 2011 quarter, we were running at more optimal levels of capacity utilization. However, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts to control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. We continued with the reduced level of wafer starts in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. These recent actions had a negative impact on our gross margins.We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments.Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer.Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to:12Table of Contentsthe quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications;product introductions by our competitors;the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;our ability to address the needs of our customers; andgeneral market and economic conditions.Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non proprietary analog products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 58% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. We do not have long term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns.Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:proper new product selection;timely completion and introduction of new product designs;timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; andmarket acceptance of our customers end products.Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results.13Table of ContentsOur success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.In connection with our acquisition of SST in April 2010, we acquired SSTs intellectual property licensing business which is based on its SuperFlash technology. The success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future. To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to:proper identification of licensee requirements;timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology;our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology;availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology;availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; andmarket acceptance of our customers end products.Because our SuperFlash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology. There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. Our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. Any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results.We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense.Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. We are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors.We use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. Further, procurement of required products and services from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products14Table of Contentsin a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.Certain of our SuperFlash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. If the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs.Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period to period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period to period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against us or the customers or licensees by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed.It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. These claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a products nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to:costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products;recalling nonconforming products;providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims;diversion of resources from other projects;lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables;customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; anda requirement to pay damages.15Table of ContentsBecause the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. We do have liability insurance which covers damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations.Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. We may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause the system failures. We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products.Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities.Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent offices of a foreign country or U.S. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. Although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors.Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers.We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. However, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues.We do not typically have long term contracts with our customers.We do not typically enter into long term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. Even though we had approximately 74,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 8% of our total net sales in fiscal 2012, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.Further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. For example, under these contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for claims of intellectual property infringement. If we agree to special supply terms and we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality related issues. If we agree to special warranty or indemnification provisions, we may be liable for the customers costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. While we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities and set caps on our liability exposure, such provisions do expose us to significant additional risks and could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.16Table of ContentsBusiness interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business.Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. These reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. In particular, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally. There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. If we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. In the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks.Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2012, approximately 82% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. During fiscal 2011, approximately 80% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. From time to time, Thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding; however, our facilities have continued to operate normally. There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. We use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to:political, social and economic instability;public health conditions;trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;import and export license requirements and restrictions;difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;employment regulations;disruptions in international transport or delivery;difficulties in collecting receivables;economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; andpotentially adverse tax consequences.If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our operating results. We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non U.S. dollar 17Table of Contentstransactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, such as past declines in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. In periods when the U.S. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the British pound, Euro and Thai baht, the operational costs in our European and Thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected.Interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business.We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. Such network disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or partner, customer or employee personal data. Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. From time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data by unauthorized parties; however, such attacks have not resulted in any material damage to us. In recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. There can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions and any such attack or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. Third party service providers, such as foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches and loss of our data could result. Any such loss of data by our third party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. The occurrence of events for which we are self insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. In these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. The risks and exposures that we self insure include, but are not limited to, certain property, product defects, political risks, and intellectual property matters. Should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected.We are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses.We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. Such environmental regulations have required us in the past and could require us in the future to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. Over the past several years, there has been an expansion in environmental laws focusing on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances in electronic products. The European Union and countries such as the U.S., China, Korea and Brazil, have enacted or may enact such laws or regulations. These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture and sell our products. In addition, over the last several years, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packaging materials have expanded significantly. It may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. We may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations. We expect these risks and trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of hazardous substances in our products and energy efficiency measures.18Table of ContentsCustomer demands and new regulations related to conflict free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses.The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires the SEC to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products), and there will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold.Climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. New climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. These regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. It is possible that new permits will be required for our current or any expansion of our operations. Failure to receive timely permits could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. In addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us such as water and power shortages or higher costs for water or energy to control the temperature inside of our facilities. Also, certain of our operations are located in tropical regions, such as Thailand. Some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products.A significant portion of our sales are made outside of the U.S. through the exporting and re exporting of products. In addition to local jurisdictions export regulations, our U.S. manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. A determination by the U.S. or local government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the I.R.S. and other tax authorities for fiscal 2009 and later. We are currently being audited by the I.R.S. for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. We are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2005 and later. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results.19Table of ContentsThe future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies;actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors;changes in analysts estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations;changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance;any acquisitions we pursue or complete;general conditions in the semiconductor industry; andglobal economic and financial conditions.In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. Some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially.We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures, including our recently announced agreement to acquire SMSC.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. In this regard, in May 2012, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire SMSC, a publicly traded semiconductor company. The integration process for our acquisitions, including our acquisition of SMSC, may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. We may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. Acquisitions may also result in one time charges (such as acquisition related expenses, write offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms.While the risks above may be relevant to all of our acquisitions, our recently announced acquisition of SMSC, when completed, will be a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and exposes us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past.Further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.20Table of ContentsWe may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long lived assets.We review our long lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. No goodwill or long lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012.Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt.As a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in December 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long term debt than we have maintained in the past. In August 2011, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement. Although we have not yet borrowed under such credit agreement, we expect to borrow a significant amount under such agreement in connection with the closing of our acquisition of SMSC later this year. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.Conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures.The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. Upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. Upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. If the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). There would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. The conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices.We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.Potential U.S. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results.Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Present U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non U.S. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the Obama administration and members of Congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. If adopted, 21Table of Contentscertain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes including repealing the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.The value of our investments in marketable equity investments could change materially.Our investments in available for sale marketable securities at March 31, 2012 consist of shares of public company common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of our balance sheet date. The market value of these investments was approximately $5.3 million at March 31, 2012. The stock prices of these securities could materially decrease due to company performance or market related activity, negatively affecting the value of these investments. If we wanted to liquidate these investments at a time in which the stock prices had decreased from current levels, our realized return would be materially and adversely affected. Depending on the number of shares we desire to sell relative to the daily trading volume in the shares, in the event we desire to sell our marketable securities, it may take several weeks or months to dispose of our position and our efforts to sell could drive down the price of the shares we are selling.We may not realize a return on our non marketable equity investments.At March 31, 2012, we had investments of $7.7 million in several privately held companies, including those that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of SST. These companies range from early stage companies to more mature companies with established revenue and business models. Many factors are critical to the success of these companies, including product and technology development, market acceptance of their products and technology, and achievement of financial and operational efficiencies. If any of these private companies are unsuccessful as a result of these or other factors, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. Also, if we determine that an other than temporary impairment to fair value exists in any of our non marketable equity investments, we will need to write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related impairment charge.Additionally, we may desire to dispose of one or more of these non marketable equity investments from time to time. However, our investments in these private companies are not liquid and we may not be able to dispose of the investments to our advantage or even at all. Also, for investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, the income or loss we are required to share from the investees income or loss could affect our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from our expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges.Credit conditions have adversely impacted our holdings of auction rate securities.At March 31, 2012, $10.2 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. Historically, the carrying value of ARS approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. With the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions. As a result, we will not be able to access such funds until a future auction on these investments is successful. Our ARS have experienced multiple rating downgrades by the major rating agencies. The fair value of these ARS has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. Based on the estimated values, we concluded these investments were other than temporarily impaired and have recognized impairment charges on these investments in prior periods. In fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ARS positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ARS position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. We recognized impairment charges of $1.6 million in fiscal 2011. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings.The majority of our short and long term investments are in highly rated government agency bonds and corporate bonds. Other than with respect to our holdings of ARS, we have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with such investments. However, there can be no assurance that credit market conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our investments in government agency bonds or corporate bonds.22Table of ContentsItem 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.Item 2. PROPERTIES At March 31, 2012, we owned the facilities described below:Location ApproximateTotal Sq. Ft. UsesChandler, Arizona 415,000 Executive and Administrative Offices; Wafer Probe; R&D Center; Sales and Marketing; and Computer and Service FunctionsTempe, Arizona 379,000 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 2); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and WarehousingGresham, Oregon 826,500 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 4); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and WarehousingChacherngsao, Thailand 489,000 Test and Assembly; Wafer Probe; Sample Center; Warehousing; and Administrative OfficesChacherngsao, Thailand 215,000 Assembly and TestBangalore, India 67,174 Research and Development; Marketing Support and Administrative Offices In addition to the facilities we own, we lease several research and development facilities and sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately $0.8 million. We currently believe that our existing facilities are suitable and will be adequate to meet our requirements for at least the next 12 months. See page 37 for a discussion of the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. We also periodically receive notification from various third parties alleging infringement of patents, intellectual property rights or other matters. With respect to these pending legal actions to which we are a party, although the outcome of these actions are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm our business and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future.Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable.PART IIItem 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "MCHP." Our common stock has been quoted on such market since our initial public offering on March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ for our last two fiscal years.23Table of ContentsFiscal 2012 High Low Fiscal 2011 High LowFirst Quarter $41.33 $35.69 First Quarter $30.62 $26.61Second Quarter $38.39 $29.60 Second Quarter $31.56 $27.60Third Quarter $37.09 $30.43 Third Quarter $36.31 $30.46Fourth Quarter $38.42 $35.17 Fourth Quarter $38.31 $34.72Stock Price Performance Graph The following graph and table show a comparison of the five year cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvestment basis, for Microchip Technology Incorporated, the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Stock Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. Cumulative Total Return March 2007 March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2011 March 2012Microchip Technology Incorporated 100.00 95.35 65.13 91.36 128.84 131.12S&P 500 Stock Index 100.00 94.92 58.77 88.02 101.79 110.48Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100.00 96.18 74.68 104.58 122.11 145.95Data acquired by Research Data Group, Inc. (www.researchdatagroup.com)On May 18, 2012, there were approximately 340 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held in nominee names.We have been declaring and paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Our total cash dividends paid were $266.2 million, $256.8 million and $249.6 million in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. The following table sets forth our quarterly cash dividends per common share and the total amount of the dividend payment for each quarter in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. At the end of our fiscal 2011 third quarter, a second cash dividend of $0.345 per share was paid in the aggregate amount of $65.0 million which was an acceleration of the dividend that would normally have been paid in March 2011 (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts): 24Table of ContentsFiscal 2012 Dividends per Common Share AggregateAmount of DividendPayment Fiscal 2011 Dividends per Common Share AggregateAmount of DividendPaymentFirst Quarter $0.346 $65,900 First Quarter $0.342 $63,452Second Quarter 0.347 66,206 Second Quarter 0.343 63,908Third Quarter 0.348 66,813 Third Quarter 0.344 64,496Fourth Quarter 0.349 67,259 Third Quarter* 0.345 64,952 Fourth Quarter None None *This dividend would normally have been paid in the fourth fiscal quarter.On May 1, 2012, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share, which will be paid on May 31, 2012 to stockholders of record on May 17, 2012 and the total amount of such dividend is expected to be approximately $67.8 million. Our Board of Directors is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. Please refer to "Item 12 Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management And Related Stockholder Matters," at page 48 below, for the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S K with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2012.Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the five year period ended March 31, 2012 in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Items 7 and 8 of this Form 10 K. Our consolidated statements of income data for each of the years in the three year period ended March 31, 2012, and the balance sheet data as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The statements of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 and balance sheet data as of March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included herein (for information below all amounts are in thousands, except per share data).25Table of ContentsStatement of Income Data: Year ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Net sales $1,383,176 $1,487,205 $947,729 $903,297 $1,035,737Cost of sales 590,782 612,769 413,487 386,793 410,799Research and development 182,650 170,607 120,823 115,524 120,864Selling, general and administrative 212,391 227,781 167,222 161,218 175,646Special charges (1) 837 1,865 1,238 6,434 26,763Operating income 396,516 474,183 244,959 233,328 301,665(Losses) gains on equity method investments (195) 157 Interest income 17,992 16,002 15,325 32,545 54,851Interest expense (34,266) (31,521) (31,150) (29,440) (9,495)Other (expense) income, net (352) 1,877 8,679 (4,354) 2,435Income from continuing operations before income taxes 379,695 460,698 237,813 232,079 349,456Income tax provision (benefit) 42,990 31,531 20,808 (13,508) 52,663Net income from continuing operations $336,705$429,167 $217,005 $245,587 $296,793Basic net income per common share continuing operations $1.76 $2.29 $1.18 $1.34 $1.43Diluted net income per common share continuing operations $1.65 $2.20 $1.16 $1.31 $1.40Dividends declared per common share $1.390 $1.374 $1.359 $1.346 $1.205Basic common shares outstanding 191,283 187,066 183,642 183,158 207,220Diluted common shares outstanding 203,519 194,715 187,339 186,788 212,048 Balance Sheet Data: March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Working capital $1,767,988 $1,434,667 $1,407,579 $1,587,144 $1,526,649Total assets 3,083,776 2,968,058 2,516,313 2,405,711 2,496,031Long term obligations, less current portion 355,050 347,334 340,672 334,184 329,409Stockholders equity 1,990,673 1,812,438 1,533,380 1,490,311 1,539,000(1) Discussions of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are contained in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. An explanation of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 is provided below. The following table presents a summary of special charges for the five year period ended March 31, 2012: Year ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Acquisition related (income) expenses $(660) $1,865 $ $ $Patent licenses 1,497 1,238 4,000 In process research and development expenses 860 Abandoned acquisition related expenses 1,574 Loss on sale of Fab 3 26,763Totals $837 $1,865 $1,238 $6,434 $26,76326Table of ContentsFiscal 2009 Special ChargesPatent LicensesWe entered into a patent portfolio license effective March 31, 2009 with an unrelated third party that covers both issued patents and patent applications and settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third party was $8.25 million, $4.0 million of which was expensed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the remaining $4.25 million was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the estimated 20 year remaining life of the patents. We entered into another patent portfolio license with the same unrelated third party in March 2011 and $2.75 million was paid covering patent applications and was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the life of the patents.In Process Research and Development During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of Hampshire Company, a leader in the large format touch screen controller market. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.5 million in process research and development charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed the acquisition of HI TECH Software, a provider of software development tools and compilers. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of R&E International, a leader in developing innovative integrated circuits for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors and other life safety systems. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.Abandoned Acquisition Expenses During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we pursued a potential acquisition and such efforts were subsequently terminated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. As such, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we expensed $1.6 million of various costs associated with the terminated acquisition.Fiscal 2008 Special Charge Loss on Sale of Fab 3 We received an unsolicited offer on our Puyallup, Washington facility (Fab 3) in September 2007. We assessed our available capacity in our current facilities, along with potential available capacity from outside foundries and determined the capacity of Fab 3 would not be required in the near term. As a result of this assessment, we accepted the offer on September 21, 2007, and the transaction closed on October 19, 2007. We received $27.5 million in cash, net of expenses associated with the sale, and recognized a loss on sale of $26.8 million, representing the difference between the carrying value of the assets and the amounts received.27Table of ContentsItem 7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSNote Regarding Forward looking Statements This report, including "Item 1 Business," "Item 1A Risk Factors," and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter;Our expectation that our inventory levels will stay about flat in the June 2012 quarter compared to the March 2012 quarter and that it will allow us to maintain competitive lead times;The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment;Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase;Our belief that our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry related conditions;That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures;That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;The impact of seasonality on our business;The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate;Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable;Our belief that recently issued accounting pronouncements listed in this document will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements;The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;28Table of ContentsThe adequacy of our patent strategy, and our belief that the impact of the expiration of any particular patent will not have a material effect on our business;Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability or indemnification claims;The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and or cash flows;The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;The accuracy of our estimates of market information that determines the value of our Auction Rate Securities (ARS), and that the lack of markets for the ARS will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or ability to fund operations;Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debenture in cash;Our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain non US subsidiaries in those subsidiaries;Our intent to maintain a high quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield;Our intention to fund the SMSC acquisition purchase price using a portion of our existing balance of cash, cash equivalents or short term investments and borrowings under our credit agreement; andOur ability to collect accounts receivable.Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement.Introduction The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including "Item 1 Business;" "Item 6 Selected Financial Data;" and "
 
Item 7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSNote Regarding Forward looking Statements This report, including "Item 1 Business," "Item 1A Risk Factors," and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter;Our expectation that our inventory levels will stay about flat in the June 2012 quarter compared to the March 2012 quarter and that it will allow us to maintain competitive lead times;The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment;Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase;Our belief that our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry related conditions;That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures;That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;The impact of seasonality on our business;The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate;Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable;Our belief that recently issued accounting pronouncements listed in this document will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements;The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;28Table of ContentsThe adequacy of our patent strategy, and our belief that the impact of the expiration of any particular patent will not have a material effect on our business;Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability or indemnification claims;The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and or cash flows;The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;The accuracy of our estimates of market information that determines the value of our Auction Rate Securities (ARS), and that the lack of markets for the ARS will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or ability to fund operations;Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debenture in cash;Our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain non US subsidiaries in those subsidiaries;Our intent to maintain a high quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield;Our intention to fund the SMSC acquisition purchase price using a portion of our existing balance of cash, cash equivalents or short term investments and borrowings under our credit agreement; andOur ability to collect accounts receivable.Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement.Introduction The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including "Item 1 Business;" "Item 6 Selected Financial Data;" and "
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter;Our expectation that our inventory levels will stay about flat in the June 2012 quarter compared to the March 2012 quarter and that it will allow us to maintain competitive lead times;The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment;Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase;Our belief that our processes afford us both cost effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry related conditions;That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures;That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;The impact of seasonality on our business;The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate;Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable;Our belief that recently issued accounting pronouncements listed in this document will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements;The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;28Table of ContentsThe adequacy of our patent strategy, and our belief that the impact of the expiration of any particular patent will not have a material effect on our business;Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability or indemnification claims;The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and or cash flows;The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;The accuracy of our estimates of market information that determines the value of our Auction Rate Securities (ARS), and that the lack of markets for the ARS will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or ability to fund operations;Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debenture in cash;Our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain non US subsidiaries in those subsidiaries;Our intent to maintain a high quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield;Our intention to fund the SMSC acquisition purchase price using a portion of our existing balance of cash, cash equivalents or short term investments and borrowings under our credit agreement; andOur ability to collect accounts receivable.Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward looking statement.Introduction The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including "Item 1 Business;" "Item 6 Selected Financial Data;" and "
 
