FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20050708111840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 8, 2005, CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") announced that it has reached an agreement to settle a shareholder derivative lawsuit linked to round-trip energy trading, subject to court approval. In the lawsuit, the plaintiff shareholder alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with round-trip trading and related internal controls by certain current and former officers and directors of CMS Energy and its subsidiaries that were named as defendants. The settlement agreement, in the form of the Stipulation of Settlement described below, has been signed by each of the plaintiff, the named individual defendants and CMS Energy as the nominal defendant, as well as the Special Litigation Committee (the "Committee") of CMS Energys Board of Directors (the "Board"). The Committee, comprised of two disinterested and independent directors who joined the Board after the round-trip trading was discontinued, approved the Stipulation of Settlement on behalf of the Board, based on the authority g ranted to the Committee by the Board to pursue, settle or terminate the lawsuit after due investigation. The terms of the settlement, including a $12 million payment to CMS Energy under its directors and officers liability insurance program to pay related legal costs, as well as certain corporate governance measures taken by CMS Energy, are detailed in the News Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. On July 8, 2005, the Jackson County, Michigan, Circuit Court, which has jurisdiction over the derivative lawsuit, issued an Order setting the hearing date for final approval of the terms of the settlement as embodied in the Stipulation of Settlement. The Stipulation of Settlement and the Order are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively. The hearing is scheduled for 3 p.m. on August 26, 2005 before the Honorable Edward J. Grant at the Jackson County Circuit Courthouse, 312 South Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201. Written objections will be due on or before August 19, 2005. Inte rested persons may attend the final approval hearing. The Order also approved the forms of notice to shareholders and a proposed form of final court order and judgment. The long-form notice, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4, provides details regarding the hearing, the lawsuit and the settlement. The shorter form notice will be published in The Wall Street Journal and the Detroit Free Press, and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.5. The proposed form of the Circuit Court's Final Order and Judgment, which could be issued at or following the August 26, 2005 hearing, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.6.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 99.1 CMS Energy's News Release, dated July 8, 2005 99.2 Stipulation of Settlement, dated July 7, 2005 99.3 Order Approving Notice and Scheduling Hearing, dated July 8, 2005 99.4 Notice of Settlement of Shareholder Derivative Action and Settlement Hearing, dated July 8, 2005 99.5 Important Notice to all Current Shareholders of CMS Energy Corporation, dated July 8, 2005 99.6 Proposed form of Final Order and Judgment
This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS section of CMS Energy's Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference), that discusses important factors that could cause CMS Energy's results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

JACKSON, Mich., July 8, 2005  CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) announced today that it has reached an agreement to settle a shareholder derivative lawsuit linked to round-trip energy trading.
S. Kinnie Smith Jr., CMS Energy's vice chairman and general counsel, said the settlement, which remains subject to court approval, represents another milestone in the Company's ongoing efforts to resolve the legal issues stemming from a subsidiary's round-trip trading.
"This agreement eliminates a major legal and business uncertainty for CMS Energy and its shareholders and moves us a step closer to writing the final chapter on an unfortunate period in the Company's history," Smith said. He noted the settlement agreement was approved by the Board of Directors' Special Litigation Committee and that the members of that committee joined the Board after the round-trip trading was discontinued.
An individual shareholder filed the lawsuit, purportedly on behalf of the Company, in November 2003. The lawsuit claimed certain current and former CMS Energy officers and directors had breached their fiduciary duties in connection with round-trip trading and related internal controls.
CMS Energy disclosed in May 2002 that certain employees of a Texas-based subsidiary had engaged in round-trip or "wash" energy trades to raise the subsidiary's profile as an energy marketer with the goal of enhancing its ability to market its services. The Company restated its financial reports for 2000 and 2001 to eliminate all revenues and expenses from the round-trip trades, exited the wholesale energy trading business, closed the subsidiary's Texas office, and phased out most of its remaining operations. It reached a settlement on these matters with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission without paying any fine.
Under the terms of the agreement to settle the shareholder derivative lawsuit:
The agreement also reflects CMS Energy's implementation of a number of corporate governance changes to foster greater transparency, update its employee compliance and ethics guidelines, and increase oversight by the independent members of the Board of Directors. As previously announced, CMS Energy has:
Robert Weiser, an attorney for the shareholder who brought the suit, commended CMS Energy for strengthening its corporate governance. "CMS Energy has made a substantial commitment to its shareholders. The policies adopted by the Company make it a national leader in the area of corporate governance. CMS Energy shareholders should be proud of the steps the Company's Board of Directors has taken," he said.
The agreement to settle the shareholder derivative lawsuit includes no admission of liability by CMS Energy or any of the officers and directors named in the suit.
The agreement has been submitted to a Jackson County, Michigan, circuit court for approval. The court already has approved the forms of shareholder notice and scheduled a hearing for final approval of the settlement for 3 p.m. on Aug. 26, 2005. Judge Edward J. Grant will conduct the hearing at the Jackson County Circuit Courthouse, 312 South Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201.
The agreement and accompanying legal documents, including the forms of shareholder notice, are included in a Form 8-K that the Company is filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The filing will be available at the Company's website at , under "SEC Filings." A shareholder notice announcing the proposed settlement also will be published in several major newspapers.
www.cmsenergy.com/invest
CMS Energy is an integrated energy company, which has as its primary business operations an electric and natural gas utility, natural gas pipeline systems, and independent power generation.
For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our web site at: www.cmsenergy.com
Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395
Investment Analyst Contact: CMS Energy Investor Relations, 517/788-2590

/
/
Plaintiff Andrew Klotz ("Plaintiff"), derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS" or the "Company"); defendants William U. Parfet, John M. Deutch, James J. Duderstadt, Percy A. Pierre, John B. Yasinsky, Kathleen R. Flaherty, Earl D. Holton, Ken L. Way, Kenneth Whipple, William T. McCormick, Jr. and Alan M. Wright (collectively, "Defendants"); CMS; and CMS's Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC") agree to settle this derivative action (the "Action") in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this stipulation of settlement ("Stipulation").
By certified letter dated May 17, 2002 addressed to the Company, Plaintiff, a common shareholder of the Company, pursuant to Section 493a of the Michigan Business Corporation Act ("MBCA"), MCL 450.1493a, demanded that the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") take action to remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by certain officers and directors of the Company based in large part on transactions which have come to be known as "round-trip" energy trading (the "Shareholder Demand"). The Board formed the SLC and the disinterested directors on the Board appointed the SLC's members to investigate the allegations in the Shareholder Demand and to decide what action, if any, should be undertaken in response thereto.
On November 25, 2003, counsel for Plaintiff filed the complaint herein (the "Complaint") before the Company had the opportunity to respond to the Shareholder Demand. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that certain officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other acts, failing to exercise proper oversight with regard to round-trip trading, failing to maintain adequate internal controls, failing to adhere to generally accepted accounting principles with regard to revenue recognition, and for insider selling and misappropriation of confidential corporate information.
Following service of process on December 2, 2003, Plaintiff agreed to stay the proceedings in light of a related consolidated securities class action involving round-trip energy trading pending before the Michigan federal courts, entitled , Case No. 02-CV-72004-DT, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "Federal Securities Action"), and the on-going investigation by the SLC.
In re CMS Energy Securities Litigation
Thereafter, counsel for the parties had numerous discussions regarding the claims in the Action, the likely defenses thereto and the Company's evolving corporate governance practices. During the Fall of 2004, counsel for the parties held several meetings where they discussed the potential resolution of the Action. These discussions continued throughout the Winter and Spring of 2005. The end result of these extended negotiations is the proposed settlement embodied in this Stipulation.
On June 24, 2005, the Court held a status conference during which counsel for Plaintiff and CMS advised the Court that a consensus had been reached regarding material deal points of a proposed settlement, subject to the approval of the SLC and acknowledgement of the Board and certain other standing committees of the Board. Counsel for Plaintiff and CMS outlined the financial and non-financial aspects of the contemplated settlement for the Court, the forms of notice to shareholders proposed by CMS, and Plaintiff's counsel's anticipated request for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses. Counsel for Plaintiff and CMS agreed to provide the Court with the Stipulation and application for Preliminary Approval (as that term is defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.9 hereof), assuming all corporate approvals and acknowledgements were obtained, no later than July 8, 2005. Based thereon, the Court set a hearing for final approval of the proposed settlement on August 26, 2005, at 3:00 p.m.
Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel (as that term is defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.8 hereof) have conducted an extensive investigation into the relevant facts and circumstances during the pendency of the Action. This investigation has included, : (a) a review and analysis of CMS's financial filings and related news articles; (b) a review and analysis of relevant legal authorities; (c) an inspection, review and analysis of documents produced by, or otherwise relating to, CMS; (d) the retention of a nationally renowned corporate governance expert; (e) the retention of a private investigator to assist Plaintiff in investigating possible claims and defenses thereto; (f) an investigation into the disinterested status of the members of the SLC; and (g) participation in numerous in-person and telephonic meetings with CMS, its counsel, and counsel to the SLC.
inter
alia
Defendants deny each and all of the claims and contentions alleged by Plaintiff in the Action. Defendants also deny the allegations that Plaintiff or CMS has suffered any damages. Defendants deny all charges of wrongdoing or liability against them arising out of any of the conduct, statements, acts and omissions alleged in the Action. Defendants assert that, at all relevant times, they acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders.
In deciding to settle, Defendants and CMS have concluded that further litigation would be protracted and expensive. Defendants and CMS also have taken into account the uncertainty and risks inherent in any litigation, especially complex derivative litigation like the Action, as well as the benefits that would be conferred on CMS shareholders by the corporate governance changes that have been adopted and will be continued, as well as the monetary payments described in Section VII.2.A hereof. Defendants and CMS have, therefore, determined that it is desirable and beneficial to CMS and its shareholders to have the Action settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Stipulation.
Plaintiff believes that the claims asserted in the Action have merit and that the evidence developed to date supports the claims asserted. However, Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel recognize and acknowledge the expense and length of continued proceedings necessary to prosecute the Action against Defendants through trial and appeals. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel also have taken into account the uncertain outcome and risk of any litigation, especially in complex derivative litigation such as the Action, as well as the difficulties and delays inherent in such litigation. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel are also mindful of the inherent problems of proof under, and possible defenses to, the violations asserted in the Action, including, but not limited to, the possibility that the SLC could recommend termination of the Action. Based on these considerations, among others, Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel believe that the proposed settlement set forth in this Stipulation confers substantial benefits upon Plaintiff, CMS and CMS shareholders.
The SLC has conducted an extensive investigation into the facts, claims and legal theories in the Action. The SLC, through its counsel, also participated in the negotiations leading up to this proposed settlement and has reviewed the terms of the proposed settlement and this Stipulation. Based thereon, the SLC has concluded that the proposed settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate, and in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders.
1. Following the submission of the Shareholder Demand and as part of the proposed settlement of the Action, the Company has implemented a continuing transition of the membership of its Board and the committees thereof, as well as substantial turnover of its senior executives, as follows:
2. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Company has created substantially enhanced Board, officer and employee compliance and governance oversight functions that include the following measures:
d. The Company has split the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO.
3. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Board has created stock ownership guidelines applicable to each of the directors and officers of the Company. The Company believes these guidelines further align the interests of the Board and management with those of shareholders. Independent directors and the Chairman of the Board are required to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to five times their annual cash retainer within five years of becoming a director or within five years of the 2004 initiation of the guidelines, whichever comes first. The officer guidelines require the CEO to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to five times his base salary, the Vice Presidents to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to their respective base salaries, and the intermediate officers (such as Executive Vice Presidents, Subsidiary Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents) to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to multiples of two or three times their respective base salaries, again within five years of the applicable date.
4. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board has substantially altered the Company's executive compensation practices in the following manner: (a) the Company has discontinued the use of stock options as part of its standard executive compensation package; (b) the Company has created new annual bonus performance criteria that currently focus on the Company's success in meeting challenging, ongoing Company earnings per share and free cash flow goals established by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee at the beginning of each year (future annual bonus goals may vary from these, but will be within the performance-based parameters approved by shareholders), and long-term awards (that currently take the form of performance-based restricted stock, which vests over a multi-year period) with performance criteria that currently focus on the Company's success, both on an absolute and a peer-comparison basis, in meeting challenging total shareholder return metrics (future long-term awards may take different forms and/or performance metrics, but will be within the parameters approved by shareholders); thereby making a significant portion of the executive's compensation "pay at risk;" (c) the Company has agreed not to provide its officers with any guaranteed bonuses; (d) the Company has agreed to end its historic practice of automatically providing employment agreements, with contractual rights to severance payments, for future officers; (e) the Company has increased transparency with respect to executive compensation practices, including, but not limited to, disclosing the types of annual and long-term performance criteria in the Company's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, its Annual Meeting Proxy Statements and Forms 8-K.
The Company agrees that the corporate governance/compliance and executive compensation measures included in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above will remain in effect for at least three years from the date of the Court's approval of the proposed settlement, or until such earlier time as there is a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in the Company's Policy on Change in Control Agreements and related agreements); provided, however, that any such measure can be altered or removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the independent directors on the Board, upon a determination, in good faith and upon the advice of counsel, that such provision conflicts with or is substantially redundant with any law, regulation or rule (including listing requirements of the NYSE or other exchange or quotation system on which the Company's common stock is listed or traded), or conflicts with or is substantially redundant with any amendment to the Company's articles of incorporation approved by the Company's shareholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the parties anticipate that the Company, its Board and committees will continue to enhance these corporate governance/compliance and executive compensation measures during this three-year period and, thus, committee charters, the CGP and the referenced measures may continue to be updated to reflect developing best practices in those areas.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED, subject to the approval of the Court, that the Action shall be dismissed with prejudice pursuant to judgment in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Stipulation, as follows:
As used herein, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
1. Definitions
1.1 "CMS" or the "Company" means CMS Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries, predecessors, successors, divisions or affiliates.
1.2 "Current CMS Shareholder" or "Current CMS Shareholders" means any record and/or beneficial owner(s) of CMS common stock as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of this Stipulation.
1.3 "Defendants" means William T. McCormick, Jr., Alan M. Wright, Kenneth Whipple, William U. Parfet, John M. Deutch, James J. Duderstadt, Percy A. Pierre, John B. Yasinsky, Kathleen R. Flaherty, Earl D. Holton and Ken L. Way.
1.4 "Effective Date" means the date that the Court enters a final order approving the proposed settlement.
1.5 "Final" means the earliest of the following dates when there are no further rights of appeal or rights to seek leave to appeal: (a) if no appeal is filed, the expiration date for appealing the Judgment to the Michigan Court of Appeals; (b) if a timely appeal is filed with the Michigan Court of Appeals, the date of final affirmance on appeal of the Judgment by the Michigan Court of Appeals; (c) if following an appeal to the Michigan Court of Appeals there is an application for leave to appeal filed with the Michigan Supreme Court, the date that the Michigan Supreme Court denies the application for leave to appeal; (d) if the Michigan Supreme Court grants an application for leave to appeal, the date of final affirmance of the Judgment by the Michigan Supreme Court; (e) if a petition for writ of certiorari is filed with the United States Supreme Court, the date that the United States Supreme Court denies certiorari; or (f) if the United States Supreme Court grants certiorari, the date of final affirmance of the Judgment by the United States Supreme Court. Any proceeding or order, or any appeal, application for leave to appeal or petition for a writ of certiorari pertaining solely to any plan of allocation and/or application for attorneys' fees, costs or expenses, shall not in any way delay or preclude the Judgment from becoming Final.
1.6 "Judgment" means the Final Order and Judgment to be rendered by the Court, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D.
1.7 "Person" means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, professional corporation, limited liability partnership, partnership, limited partnership, association, joint stock company, estate, legal representative, trust, unincorporated association, government or any political subdivision or agency thereof, and any business or legal entity and their spouses, heirs, predecessors, successors, representatives, or assignees.
1.8 "Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel" means Schiffrin & Barroway, LLP, Richard S. Schiffrin, 280 King of Prussia Road, Radnor, PA 19087, telephone (610) 667-7706; and The Weiser Law Firm, P.C., Robert B. Weiser, 121 N. Wayne Ave., Suite 100, Wayne, PA 19087, telephone (610) 225-2677.
1.9 "Preliminary Approval" means the Court's entry of an order approving the forms of notice to shareholders of the proposed settlement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
1.10 "Related Parties" means: (a) the Company's past or present directors, officers, managers, employees, partners, members, principals, agents, underwriters, insurers, co-insurers, reinsurers, controlling shareholders, attorneys, banks or investment banks, associates, personal or legal representatives, predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, joint ventures, assigns; and (b) the Defendants' spouses, heirs, executors, administrators, related or affiliated entities, any entity in which a Defendant has a controlling interest, any members of their immediate families, or any trust of which any Defendant is the settlor or which is for the benefit of any Defendant and/or member(s) of his or her family.
1.11 "Released Claims" shall collectively mean all claims (including "Unknown Claims" as defined in paragraph 1.14 herein), demands, rights, liabilities and causes of action of every nature and description whatsoever, known or unknown, whether or not concealed or hidden, asserted or that might have been asserted by any Current CMS Shareholders derivatively on behalf of CMS in the Action, that are based upon or related in any way to the facts, circumstances, transactions, events, occurrences, disclosures, statements, omissions, acts or failures to act which were alleged or could have been alleged in the Action (, round-trip trading, compensation, insider trading, misappropriation of corporate information, oversight, internal controls, accounting, trading and any securities offering to date), including, without limitation, claims for negligence, gross negligence, breach of duty of care and/or breach of duty of loyalty, fraud, constructive fraud, self-dealing, misrepresentation (whether intentional, negligent or innocent), omission (whether intentional, negligent or innocent), mismanagement, gross mismanagement, abuse of control, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty or violations of any state statute, rules or regulations or any other source of legal or equitable obligation of any kind or description in whatever forum, and any alleged defects in the approval process for and notice of this proposed settlement. The Released Claims shall not include: those claims asserted under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78j(b) & 78t, by plaintiffs in the Federal Securities Action; and those claims asserted under 29 U.S.C.  1104-1107 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by plaintiffs in , Case No. 02-CV-72834 DT, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "ERISA Action").
e.g.
bona
fide
bona
fide
In re CMS Energy ERISA Litigation
1.12 "Released Persons" means each of the Defendants, CMS, the SLC and their respective Related Parties.
1.13 "Settling Parties" means, collectively, the Defendants, CMS, the SLC and the Plaintiff, derivatively on behalf of CMS and Current CMS Shareholders.
1.14 "Unknown Claims" means any Released Claims which Plaintiff, CMS or any Current CMS Shareholder does not know or suspect to exist in his, her or its favor at the time of the release of the Released Persons which, if known by him, her or it, might have affected his, her or its settlement with and release of the Released Persons, or might have affected his, her or its decision not to object to this settlement. Plaintiff, CMS and/or Current CMS Shareholders may hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those which they now know or believe to be true with respect to the subject matter of the Released Claims, but Plaintiff, CMS and Current CMS Shareholders shall expressly, upon the Effective Date, be deemed to have, and by operation of the Judgment shall have, fully, finally, and forever settled and released any and all Released Claims, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, contingent or noncontingent, whether or not concealed or hidden, which now exist, or heretofore have existed upon any theory of law or equity now existing or coming into existence as a result of such different or additional facts. Plaintiff acknowledges, and Current CMS Shareholders shall be deemed by operation of the Judgment to have acknowledged, that the foregoing waiver was separately bargained for and a key element of the settlement of which this release is a material and essential part and expressly waive: (a) the benefits of the provisions of Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides that ; and (b) the benefits of any comparable law, statute, regulation or legal principle of any other jurisdiction.
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor"
2. The Settlement
As a result of the Shareholder Demand, and the filing and settlement of the Action, CMS has received or will receive upon final approval of the proposed settlement, the following material benefits:
A. Monetary Relief for the Company
On behalf of the Defendants, CMS will receive a cash payment from its directors and officers liability insurance program in the amount of $12 million within ten days of the entry of the Judgment. Of that sum, $7 million will be applied by CMS toward: (i) any reasonable settlement of or judgment in the Federal Securities Action; and/or (ii) certain costs and expenses incurred in the Federal Securities Action. Of the remaining $5 million, CMS may be required to pay attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses to Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel in an amount up to $3.36 million upon application by the Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel and approval by the Court. Any net recovery from this proposed settlement by CMS in excess of the $7 million sum referenced herein may be used by CMS for any purpose.
B. Corporate Governance Enhancements
In addition to the monetary relief described above, CMS has agreed to adopt and continue the corporate governance enhancements set forth in Section VI hereof.
1. Promptly after execution of this Stipulation, the Settling Parties shall submit this Stipulation to the Court and shall apply for entry of an order, substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, requesting, , approval for the publication of a "Notice of Settlement of Shareholder Derivative Action and Settlement Hearing" and an "Important Notice to All Current Shareholders of CMS Energy Corporation" (collectively, both documents are referred to as the "Notice"), substantially in the form of Exhibits B and C attached hereto, which shall include the general terms of the proposed settlement set forth in this Stipulation and the time, date and location of the Settlement Hearing (as defined in paragraph 2 herein).
inter
alia
2. The Court scheduled a hearing (the "Settlement Hearing") on August 26, 2005, at 3:00 p.m., to determine whether to approve the proposed settlement of the Action, and to entertain any objections to the proposed settlement and/or Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel's anticipated request for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses, as set forth herein.
3. The Notice program shall be administered by CMS and all costs associated with the Notice shall be borne by CMS.
Upon the Effective Date, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.4 hereof, the Plaintiff, derivatively on behalf of CMS and on behalf of Current CMS Shareholders, shall fully, finally and forever release, relinquish and discharge all Released Claims (including Unknown Claims as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.14 hereof) against each and all of the Released Persons.
1. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel has informed the Defendants, CMS and the SLC that an award of attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses of up to $3.36 million may be sought. CMS, Defendants and the SLC will not oppose any fee and expense request up to $3.36 million. The Settling Parties agree that this Stipulation and the proposed settlement, including the effectiveness of the releases provided in Section IX hereof, shall not be contingent upon such an award.
2. CMS shall pay any fee and expense award up to $3.36 million within ten days of the entry of the Judgment; provided, however, if the fee and expense award is later reduced, vacated and/or reversed, then Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel shall within ten business days thereof refund to CMS that portion of the fees and expenses which was reduced, vacated and/or reversed. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel further agrees that each of their respective law firms, partners and/or shareholders are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this paragraph.
3. Defendants and their respective Related Parties shall have no responsibility for, and no liability whatsoever with respect to, the allocation among Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel and any other Person who may assert some claim to any portion of the fees and expenses awarded.
1. The Effective Date shall be conditioned upon the entry of Judgment substantially in the form of Exhibit D and the Judgment becoming Final, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.5 hereof.
2. If all of the conditions specified in paragraph 1 herein are not met, then this Stipulation shall be terminated, unless Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel and counsel for CMS mutually agree in writing to proceed with the Stipulation.
3. If the Effective Date does not occur, or if this Stipulation is not approved by the Court or the proposed settlement set forth in this Stipulation is terminated or fails to become effective in accordance with its terms, the Settling Parties shall be restored to their respective positions in the Action as of June 24, 2005. In such event, the terms and provisions of this Stipulation shall have no further force and effect with respect to the Settling Parties and shall not be used in the Action or in any other proceeding for any purpose, and any Judgment or order entered by the Court in accordance with the terms of this Stipulation shall be treated as vacated, .
nunc
pro
tunc
1. The Settling Parties acknowledge that it is their intent to consummate this agreement, and agree to cooperate to the extent reasonably necessary to effectuate and implement all terms and conditions of this Stipulation and to exercise their best efforts to accomplish the foregoing terms and conditions of this Stipulation.
2. The parties intend this proposed settlement to be a final and complete resolution of all disputes between them with respect to the Action. Accordingly, the Settling Parties agree that the terms of this proposed settlement reflect a good-faith settlement of the derivative claims, reached voluntarily after consultation with highly experienced counsel.
3. Neither this Stipulation nor the proposed settlement, nor any act performed or document executed pursuant to or in furtherance of this Stipulation or the proposed settlement: (a) is or may be deemed to be or may be used as an admission of, or evidence of, the validity or invalidity of any Released Claim, or of any wrongdoing or liability of the Released Persons; or (b) is or may be deemed to be or may be used as an admission of, or evidence of, any fault or omission of any of the Released Persons in any civil, criminal or administrative proceeding in any court, administrative agency or other tribunal. Released Persons may file this Stipulation and/or the Judgment in any action that may be brought against them in order to support a defense or counterclaim based on principles of , collateral estoppel, release, good faith settlement, judgment bar or reduction or any other theory of claim preclusion or issue preclusion or similar claim or defense. Plaintiff, any Current CMS Shareholder, CMS and/or the SLC may file this Stipulation in any proceeding brought to enforce any of its terms or provisions. The Settling Parties and their counsel, and each of them, agree, to the extent permitted by law, that all agreements made and orders entered during the course of the Action relating to the confidentiality of information shall survive this Stipulation.
res
judicata
4. All of the exhibits to this Stipulation are material and integral parts hereof and are fully incorporated herein by reference.
5. This Stipulation may be amended or modified only by a written instrument signed by or on behalf of all Settling Parties or their respective successors-in-interest. Defendants will obtain consent of their insurer(s) to any modification or amendment which may affect the rights and duties of the insurer(s).
6. This Stipulation and the exhibits attached hereto constitute the entire agreement between the Settling Parties, and no representations, warranties or inducements have been made to any party concerning this Stipulation or its exhibits other than the representations, warranties and covenants contained and memorialized in such documents. Except as otherwise provided herein, each party shall bear its own costs.
7. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel, derivatively on behalf of CMS and Current CMS Shareholders, are expressly authorized by the Plaintiff to take all appropriate action required or permitted to be taken by Current CMS Shareholders pursuant to this Stipulation to effectuate its terms and also are expressly authorized to enter into any modification or amendments to this Stipulation on behalf of CMS and Current CMS Shareholders which they deem appropriate.
8. Each counsel or other person executing this Stipulation or any of its exhibits on behalf of any party hereto hereby warrants that such Person has the full authority to do so.
9. This Stipulation shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
10. This Stipulation may be executed in one or more counterparts. All executed counterparts and each of them shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. A complete set of original executed counterparts shall be filed with the Court.
11. The Court shall retain jurisdiction with respect to the implementation and enforcement of the terms of this Stipulation, and all parties hereto submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court for purposes of implementing and enforcing the settlement embodied in this Stipulation.
12. This Stipulation and the exhibits hereto shall be considered to have been negotiated, executed, delivered, and to be wholly performed, in the State of Michigan. The rights and obligations of the parties to this Stipulation shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the internal, substantive laws of the State of Michigan without giving effect to that State's choice of law principles.
Dated: July 7, 2005
McDERMOTT WILL & EMERY LLP
By:
/s/ Eric Landau
Attorneys for CMS Energy Corporation, John M. Deutch, James J. Duderstadt, Percy A. Pierre, John B. Yasinsky, Kathleen R. Flaherty, Earl D. Holton, Ken L. Way, and Kenneth Whipple
Dated: July 7, 2005
THE WEISER LAW FIRM, P.C.
By:
/s/ Robert B. Weiser
Attorneys for plaintiff Andrew Klotz
Dated: July 7, 2005
SCHIFFRIN & BARROWAY, LLP
By:
/s/ Richard S. Schiffrin/
MAT
Attorneys for plaintiff Andrew Klotz
Dated: July 7, 2005
SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20006 (202) 956-7500
By:
/s/ Daryl Libow
Attorneys for defendant William U. Parfet
Dated: July 7, 2005
WILLIAMS & CONNOLLY LLP 725 Twelfth Street, NW Washington, DC 20005-5901 (202) 434-5173
By:
/s/ Ryan Scarborough
Attorneys for defendant William T. McCormick, Jr.
Dated: July 7, 2005
CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP 1 Liberty Plaza New York, NY 10006 (212) 225-2000
By:
/s/ Lewis J. Liman
Attorneys for defendant Alan M. Wright
Dated: July 7, 2005
JENNER & BLOCK 1 IBM Plaza Chicago, IL 60611 (312) 840-8640
By:
/s/ J. Kevin McCall
Attorneys for Special Litigation Committee

/
WHEREAS, the parties have proposed to settle the above-captioned shareholder derivative action (the "Action") on the terms set forth in the Stipulation of Settlement dated July 7, 2005 (the "Stipulation");
WHEREAS, the parties to the Stipulation having consented to the entry of this Order; and
WHEREAS, the Court has reviewed the record in the Action and the Stipulation and exhibits attached thereto, has considered the presentations of counsel, and has found good cause for entering the following Order.
NOW, THEREFORE, this 8 day of July, 2005, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:
th
1. A final settlement hearing (the "Settlement Hearing") shall be held on August 26, 2005, at 3:00 p.m., in the Courtroom of the Honorable Edward J. Grant, in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, 312 S. Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201, for the following purposes: (a) to determine whether the proposed settlement as set forth in the Stipulation should be approved as fair, reasonable and adequate, and in the best interests of CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS") and its shareholders; (b) to determine whether a Final Order and Judgment should be entered substantially in the form attached as Exhibit D to the Stipulation (the "Judgment") dismissing the Action with prejudice pursuant to judgment; and (c) to rule upon an anticipated application for an award of attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses by Schiffrin & Barroway, LLP and The Weiser Law Firm, P.C. (collectively, "Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel").
2. The Court reserves: (a) the right to approve the proposed settlement, with such modifications as may be agreed to by counsel for the parties to the proposed settlement consistent with such settlement, without further notice to any record and/or beneficial owner(s) of CMS common stock as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation ("Current CMS Shareholders"); and (b) the right to continue or adjourn the Settlement Hearing from time to time, by oral announcement at the hearing or at any adjournment thereof, without further notice to Current CMS Shareholders.
3. Notice of the proposed settlement and the Settlement Hearing shall be provided and paid for by CMS in the following manner:
(a) Within four business days of the entry of this Order, CMS will issue a news release through PR Newswire reciting the principal material terms of the proposed settlement, and giving the date, time and location of the Settlement Hearing;
(b) Within four business days of the entry of this Order, CMS will file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 8-K disclosing the proposed settlement and the date, time and location of the Settlement Hearing, advising Current CMS Shareholders of their ability to file written objections and/or attend the final approval hearing, and attaching as exhibits copies of the news release, the Stipulation and all exhibits thereto, including the long-form notice attached as Exhibit B to the Stipulation, and this Order;
(c) Within ten calendar days of the entry of this Order, CMS will publish in the Wall Street Journal and the Detroit Free Press a copy of the short-form notice attached to the Stipulation as Exhibit C.
4. This Court finds that both the form of the notice and the procedure that will be used to give notice, as provided for in the preceding paragraph, fully satisfy the requirements of Section 496 of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, MCL 450.1496, the Constitution of the United States and any other applicable law.
5. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel are authorized to act on behalf of Current CMS Shareholders with respect to all acts required by the Stipulation or such other acts as are reasonably necessary to consummate the proposed settlement as set forth in the Stipulation.
6. Any Current CMS Shareholder who objects to the proposed settlement and/or to the request by Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses, or who otherwise wishes to be heard concerning any matter before the Court, may appear at the Settlement Hearing in person or by counsel of his, her or its choice and expense, and present evidence or argument. Any Current CMS Shareholder who does not enter an appearance will be represented by the attorneys for Plaintiff listed below. Any Current CMS Shareholder who wishes to appear at the Settlement Hearing, however, will be heard if and only if, no later than seven days prior to the Settlement Hearing, , by August 19, 2005, unless good cause is shown for an extension of this period, such person files with the Clerk of the Court: (a) a written notice of the person's intent to appear, including (i) the person's name, address and telephone number, (ii) evidence that the person is a Current CMS Shareholder, , that he, she or it held the stock as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation, and (iii) a detailed statement of the basis for the person's objections to or comments upon the proposed settlement, the request by Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses, or any other matter before the Court; (b) any supporting papers, including all documents and writings that the person desires the Court to consider; and (c) the names and identities of any witnesses that the person plans to call to testify in connection with the Settlement Hearing, with a description of the witnesses' likely testimony. Additionally, any person wishing to object shall, no later than seven days prior to the Settlement Hearing, mail copies of all papers filed with the Clerk of the Court by first-class mail (or delivered by hand, facsimile or overnight mail) to the following counsel:
i.e.
i.e.
7. In order to object to the proposed settlement, the notice of objection must demonstrate the objecting person's standing as a Current CMS Shareholder as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation. Additionally, any Current CMS Shareholder must demonstrate that he, she or it holds CMS common stock as of the date of the Settlement Hearing. .
Any Current CMS Shareholder who fails to object to any aspect of the proposed settlement in the manner stated above shall be deemed to have waived his, her or its right to object, and shall forever be barred from raising such objection in this or any other action or proceeding
8. Pending the Settlement Hearing, all proceedings in the Action are stayed other than proceedings necessary to carry out or enforce the terms and conditions of the Stipulation.
9. If the Effective Date does not occur, or if the Stipulation is not approved by the Court or the proposed settlement set forth in the Stipulation is terminated or fails to become effective in accordance with its terms, the Settling Parties shall be restored to their respective positions in the Action as of June 24, 2005. In such event, the terms and provisions of the Stipulation shall have no further force and effect with respect to the Settling Parties and shall not be used in the Action or in any other proceeding for any purpose, and any Judgment or order entered by the Court in accordance with the terms of the Stipulation shall be treated as vacated, .
nunc
pro
tunc
10. All Current CMS Shareholders shall be bound by the applicable determination and orders, and the Judgment, whether favorable or unfavorable to any of them.

/
Please read this Notice carefully and in its entirety. Your rights may be affected by proceedings in the above-captioned shareholder derivative action (the "Action"). This Notice has been prepared pursuant to an Order of the Court following the execution of a Stipulation of Settlement (the "Stipulation"), dated July 7, 2005. The purpose of this Notice is to inform you of the proposed settlement of the Action brought on behalf of CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS"), and of the hearing to be held by the Court to consider the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of the proposed settlement embodied in the terms of the Stipulation, and the request by plaintiff's counsel to approve an award of their attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses.
This Notice describes the rights you may have in connection with the Stipulation and what steps you may take in relation to the matters discussed in the Stipulation.
This Notice is not intended to be and should not be construed as an expression of any opinion by the Court about the merits of any claims or defenses asserted by any party in the Action or the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of the proposed settlement embodied in the terms of the Stipulation.
If, after reading this Notice, you have any questions with respect to this Notice or any other aspect of the Action or the proposed settlement, you should raise them with your own attorney or advisor, or with the following counsel for plaintiff Andrew Klotz ("Plaintiff") in the Action:
Please do not call the Court.
A settlement hearing (the "Settlement Hearing") for the Action shall be held on August 26, 2005, at 3:00 p.m., in the Courtroom of the Honorable Edward J. Grant, in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, State of Michigan (the "Court"), 312 S. Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201, for the following purposes: (a) to determine whether the proposed settlement embodied in the terms of the Stipulation should be approved as fair, reasonable and adequate, and in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders; (b) to determine whether a Final Order and Judgment should be entered (the "Judgment"); and (c) to rule upon an application by Plaintiff's counsel for an award of attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses.
Plaintiff is a holder of CMS common stock. Plaintiff asserted claims derivatively on behalf of and for the benefit of CMS. The defendants in the Action are: William U. Parfet, John M. Deutch, James J. Duderstadt, Percy A. Pierre, John B. Yasinsky, Kathleen R. Flaherty, Earl D. Holton, Ken L. Way, Kenneth Whipple, William T. McCormick, Jr. and Alan M. Wright (collectively, "Defendants"), and nominal defendant CMS.
In the Action, Plaintiff alleged that certain officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other acts, failing to exercise proper oversight with regard to round-trip trading, failing to maintain adequate internal controls, failing to adhere to generally accepted accounting principles with regard to revenue recognition, and for insider selling and misappropriation of confidential corporate information.
The Defendants deny all allegations of wrongdoing, fault, liability or damage to Plaintiff and CMS and believe that they acted properly at all times and that they would not be held liable in the Action. Nonetheless, the Defendants and CMS have concluded that further litigation would be protracted and expensive and that it is desirable that the Action be fully and finally settled in a manner and upon the terms and conditions summarized herein and set forth in detail in the Stipulation.
A. The Derivative Action
By certified letter dated May 17, 2002 addressed to the Company, Plaintiff, pursuant to Section 493a of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, MCL 450.1493a, demanded that the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") take action to remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by certain officers and directors of the Company based in large part on transactions which have come to be known as "round-trip" energy trading (the "Shareholder Demand"). The Board formed a Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC") and the disinterested directors on the Board appointed the SLC's members to investigate the allegations in the Shareholder Demand and to decide what action, if any, should be undertaken in response thereto.
On November 25, 2003, counsel for Plaintiff filed the complaint herein (the "Complaint") before the Company had the opportunity to respond to the Shareholder Demand. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that certain officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other acts, failing to exercise proper oversight with regard to round-trip trading, failing to maintain adequate internal controls, failing to adhere to generally accepted accounting principles with regard to revenue recognition, and for insider selling and misappropriation of confidential corporate information.
Following service of process on December 2, 2003, Plaintiff agreed to stay the proceedings in light of a related consolidated securities class action involving round-trip energy trading pending before the Michigan federal courts, entitled , Case No. 02-CV-72004-DT, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "Federal Securities Action"), and the on-going investigation by the SLC.
In re CMS Energy Securities Litigation
B. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel's Research and Investigation
Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel (as that term is defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.8 of the Stipulation) have conducted an extensive investigation into the relevant facts and circumstances during the pendency of the Action. This investigation has included, : (a) a review and analysis of CMS's financial filings and related news articles; (b) a review and analysis of relevant legal authorities; (c) an inspection, review and analysis of documents produced by, or otherwise relating to, CMS; (d) the retention of a nationally renowned corporate governance expert; (e) the retention of a private investigator to assist Plaintiff in investigating possible claims and defenses thereto; (f) an investigation into the disinterested status of the members of the SLC; and (g) participation in numerous in-person and telephonic meetings with CMS, its counsel, and counsel to the SLC.
inter
alia
Plaintiff believes that the claims asserted in the Action have merit and that the evidence developed to date supports the claims asserted. However, Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel recognize and acknowledge the expense and length of continued proceedings necessary to prosecute the Action against Defendants through trial and appeals. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel also have taken into account the uncertain outcome and risk of any litigation, especially in complex shareholder litigation such as the Action, as well as the difficulties and delays inherent in such litigation. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel are also mindful of the inherent problems of proof under, and possible defenses to, the violations asserted in the Action, including, but not limited to, the possibility that the SLC could recommend termination of the Action. Based on these considerations, among others, Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel believe that the proposed settlement set forth in the Stipulation confers substantial benefits upon Plaintiff, CMS and CMS shareholders.
Defendants deny each and all of the claims and contentions alleged by Plaintiff in the Action. Defendants also deny the allegations that Plaintiff or CMS has suffered any damages. Defendants deny all charges of wrongdoing or liability against them arising out of any of the conduct, statements, acts and omissions alleged in the Action. Defendants further assert that, at all relevant times, they acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders.
In deciding to settle, Defendants and CMS have concluded that further litigation would be protracted and expensive. Defendants and CMS also have taken into account the uncertainty and risks inherent in any litigation, especially complex shareholder litigation like the Action, as well as the benefits that would be conferred on CMS shareholders by the corporate governance changes that have been adopted and will be continued, including the monetary payments described in Section VII.A. hereof. Defendants and CMS have, therefore, determined that it is desirable and beneficial to CMS and its shareholders to have the Action settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Stipulation.
The SLC has conducted an extensive investigation into the facts, claims and legal theories in the Action. The SLC, through counsel, also participated in the negotiations leading up to the proposed settlement and has reviewed the terms of the proposed settlement and the Stipulation. Based thereon, the SLC has concluded that the proposed settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate, and in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders.
1. Following the submission of the Shareholder Demand and as part of the proposed settlement of the Action, the Company has implemented a continuing transition of the membership of its Board and the committees thereof, as well as substantial turnover of its senior executives, as follows:
2. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Company has created substantially enhanced Board, officer and employee compliance and governance oversight functions that include the following measures:
d. The Company has split the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO.
3. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Board has created stock ownership guidelines applicable to each of the directors and officers of the Company. The Company believes these guidelines further align the interests of the Board and management with those of shareholders. Independent directors and the Chairman of the Board are required to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to five times their annual cash retainer within five years of becoming a director or within five years of the 2004 initiation of the guidelines, whichever comes first. The officer guidelines require the CEO to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to five times his base salary, the Vice Presidents to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to their respective base salaries, and the intermediate officers (such as Executive Vice Presidents, Subsidiary Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents) to hold Company common stock equivalent in value to multiples of two or three times their respective base salaries, again within five years of the applicable date.
4. As a result of the Shareholder Demand and the proposed settlement of the Action, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board has substantially altered the Company's executive compensation practices in the following manner: (a) the Company has discontinued the use of stock options as part of its standard executive compensation package; (b) the Company has created new annual bonus performance criteria that currently focus on the Company's success in meeting challenging, ongoing Company earnings per share and free cash flow goals established by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee at the beginning of each year (future annual bonus goals may vary from these, but will be within the performance-based parameters approved by shareholders), and long-term awards (that currently take the form of performance-based restricted stock, which vests over a multi-year period) with performance criteria that currently focus on the Company's success, both on an absolute and a peer-comparison basis, in meeting challenging total shareholder return metrics (future long-term awards may take different forms and/or performance metrics, but will be within the parameters approved by shareholders); thereby making a significant portion of the executive's compensation "pay at risk;" (c) the Company has agreed not to provide its officers with any guaranteed bonuses; (d) the Company has agreed to end its historic practice of automatically providing employment agreements, with contractual rights to severance payments, for future officers; (e) the Company has increased transparency with respect to executive compensation practices, including, but not limited to, disclosing the types of annual and long-term performance criteria in the Company's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, its Annual Meeting Proxy Statements and Forms 8-K.
The Company agrees that the corporate governance/compliance and executive compensation measures included in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above will remain in effect for at least three years from the date of the Court's approval of the proposed settlement, or until such earlier time as there is a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in the Company's Policy on Change in Control Agreements and related agreements); provided, however, that any such measure can be altered or removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the independent directors on the Board, upon a determination, in good faith and upon the advice of counsel, that such provision conflicts with or is substantially redundant with any law, regulation or rule (including listing requirements of the NYSE or other exchange or quotation system on which the Company's common stock is listed or traded), or conflicts with or is substantially redundant with any amendment to the Company's articles of incorporation approved by the Company's shareholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the parties anticipate that the Company, its Board and committees will continue to enhance these corporate governance/compliance and executive compensation measures during this three-year period and, thus, committee charters, the CGP and the referenced measures may continue to be updated to reflect developing best practices in those areas.
The terms of the proposed settlement are fully described in the Stipulation on file with the Court, which is available for your inspection as discussed in Section XI hereof. The principal terms of the Stipulation provide for the following:
A. Monetary Relief for the Company
On behalf of the Defendants, CMS will receive a cash payment from its directors and officers liability insurance program in the amount of $12 million within ten days of the entry of the Judgment. Of that sum, $7 million will be applied by CMS toward: (i) any reasonable settlement of or judgment in the Federal Securities Action; and/or (ii) certain costs and expenses incurred in the Federal Securities Action. Of the remaining $5 million, CMS may be required to pay attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses to Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel in an amount up to $3.36 million upon application by the Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel and approval by the Court. Any net recovery from this proposed settlement by CMS in excess of the $7 million sum referenced herein may be used by CMS for any purpose.
B. Corporate Governance Enhancements
In addition to the monetary relief described above, CMS has agreed to adopt and continue the corporate governance enhancements set forth in Section VI hereof.
Upon the Effective Date, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.4 of the Stipulation, Plaintiff, derivatively on behalf of CMS and on behalf of Current CMS Shareholders, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.2 of the Stipulation, shall fully, finally and forever release, relinquish and discharge all Released Claims, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.11 of the Stipulation (including Unknown Claims as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.14 of the Stipulation) against each and all of the Released Persons, as defined in Section VII, paragraph 1.12 of the Stipulation.
Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel will submit an application for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses in the amount of up to $3.36 million, subject to the approval of the Court. CMS, Defendants and the SLC have agreed not to oppose the application for fees and expenses.
To date, Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel have not received any payment for their services in prosecuting the Action, nor have such counsel been reimbursed for their substantial out-of-pocket expenses. The fees and expenses requested by Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel would compensate counsel for their efforts in achieving the benefits described herein and for their risk in undertaking this representation on a contingency basis.
Any Current CMS Shareholder who objects to the proposed settlement and/or to the request by Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses, or who otherwise wishes to be heard concerning any matter before the Court, may appear at the Settlement Hearing in person or by counsel of his, her or its choice and expense, and present evidence or argument. Any Current CMS Shareholder who does not enter an appearance will be represented by the attorneys for Plaintiff listed below. Any Current CMS Shareholder who wishes to appear at the Settlement Hearing, however, will be heard if and only if, no later than seven days prior to the Settlement Hearing, , by August 19, 2005, unless good cause is shown for an extension of this period, such person files with the Clerk of the Court: (a) a written notice of the person's intent to appear, including (i) the person's name, address and telephone number, (ii) evidence that the person is a Current CMS Shareholder, , that he, she or it held the stock as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation, and (iii) a detailed statement of the basis for the person's objections to or comments upon the proposed settlement, the request by Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses, or any other matter before the Court; (b) any supporting papers, including all documents and writings that the person desires the Court to consider; and (c) the names and identities of any witnesses that the person plans to call to testify in connection with the Settlement Hearing, with a description of the witnesses' likely testimony. Additionally, any person wishing to object shall, no later than seven days prior to the Settlement Hearing, mail copies of all papers filed with the Clerk of the Court by first-class mail (or delivered by hand, facsimile or overnight mail) to the following counsel:
i.e.
i.e.
In order to object to the proposed settlement, the notice of objection must demonstrate the objecting person's standing as a Current CMS Shareholder as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation. Additionally, any Current CMS Shareholder must demonstrate that he, she or it holds CMS common stock as of the date of the Settlement Hearing. .
Any Current CMS Shareholder who fails to object to any aspect of the proposed settlement in the manner stated above shall be deemed to have waived his, her or its right to object, and shall forever be barred from raising such objection in this or any other action or proceeding
This Notice provides only a summary of the circumstances surrounding the Action and the proposed settlement. You may inspect the Stipulation and related documents and the pleadings and other papers on file in the Action, during regular business hours at the office of the Clerk of the Court, Circuit Court of Jackson County, 312 S. Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201. This detailed Notice describing the Action, the proposed settlement, and the rights of Current CMS Shareholders to appear in Court at the Settlement Hearing will be included in a Form 8-K which will be filed with the SEC no later than July 13, 2005, four business days from the date of filing of the Stipulation, and will be accessible through www.sec-edgar.com, or through www.cmsenergy.com/invest.

/
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that, pursuant to Order of the Court dated July 8, 2005, a hearing will be held on August 26, 2005, at 3:00 p.m., before the Honorable Edward J. Grant, Circuit Court of Jackson County, State of Michigan (the "Court"), 312 South Jackson Street, Jackson, Michigan 49201 (the "Settlement Hearing").
The purpose of the Settlement Hearing is to determine whether a proposed settlement of the shareholder derivative claims asserted in the above-captioned shareholder derivative action (the "Action") should be approved by the Court as fair, reasonable and adequate to CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS") and its shareholders and to consider an anticipated request by plaintiff's counsel for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses. The proposed settlement has been documented and agreed upon by the parties pursuant to the execution of a Stipulation of Settlement (the "Stipulation"). The Stipulation provides for the dismissal with prejudice of the Action pursuant to judgment and a release of claims against defendants, CMS and others, including claims related to the approval process for and notice of the proposed settlement.
In the Action, plaintiff alleged that certain officers and directors of CMS breached their fiduciary duties by, among other acts, failing to exercise proper oversight with regard to round-trip trading, failing to maintain adequate internal controls, failing to adhere to generally accepted accounting principles with regard to revenue recognition, and for insider selling and misappropriation of confidential corporate information.
Among other terms, the Stipulation provides that on behalf of the defendants, CMS will receive a cash payment from its directors and officers liability insurance program in the amount of $12 million. Additionally, as detailed in the Stipulation, as a result of the proposed settlement of the Action, CMS has adopted and will continue corporate governance changes to foster greater transparency with regard to CMS's operations and to ensure increased oversight by CMS's non-management directors.
As provided in the Stipulation, as part of the proposed settlement of the Action, plaintiff's counsel are anticipated to file a request with the Court for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses up to $3.36 million. CMS, the defendants and a duly formed committee of CMS's board of directors, the Special Litigation Committee, have agreed not to oppose any fee and expense request up to $3.36 million. Any attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses awarded by the Court will be paid by CMS. The Stipulation is contingent upon final Court approval, but not contingent upon any award of attorneys' fees and expenses.
If you are a current CMS common shareholder (, you owned CMS common stock as of July 7, 2005, the date of the filing of the Stipulation), you have the right to appear in Court at the Settlement Hearing. You also have the right to object to the terms of the proposed settlement and/or object to plaintiff's anticipated request for attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses. Objections must be filed with the Court, and copies of objections also must be mailed or otherwise delivered to counsel for CMS and counsel for plaintiff, by August 19, 2005. The names and contact information for such counsel are as follows:
i.e.
A detailed notice describing the Action, the proposed settlement, and the rights of current CMS common shareholders to appear in Court at the Settlement Hearing will be included in a Form 8-K, which will be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission no later than July 13, 2005 and will be accessible through www.sec-edgar.com, or through www.cmsenergy.com/invest.
If you have any questions with respect to this notice or any other aspect of the Action or the matters discussed in the Stipulation, you should raise them with your own attorney or advisor, or with the following counsel for the plaintiff in the Action:
Please do not call the Court.

/
WHEREAS, plaintiff Andrew Klotz ("Plaintiff"), derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS" or the "Company"); defendants William U. Parfet, John M. Deutch, James J. Duderstadt, Percy A. Pierre, John B. Yasinsky, Kathleen R. Flaherty, Earl D. Holton, Ken L. Way, Kenneth Whipple, William T. McCormick, Jr. and Alan M. Wright (collectively, "Defendants"); CMS; and CMS's Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC") (collectively, the "Settling Parties") have determined to settle the above-captioned shareholder derivative action (the "Action") on the terms set forth in the Stipulation of Settlement, dated July 7, 2005 (the "Stipulation");
WHEREAS, the Court has reviewed the record in the Action and the proposed settlement as set forth in the Stipulation, and having considered all submissions to the Court and presentations at a status conference held on June 24, 2005 and a hearing on the record on August 26, 2005 (the "Settlement Hearing") following notice of the proposed settlement and the Settlement Hearing given in accordance with this Court's July , 2005 Order Approving Notice and Scheduling Hearing; and
     
WHEREAS the Court has found good cause for entering the following Final Order and Judgment:
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS DAY OF AUGUST, 2005, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED AS FOLLOWS:
     
1. For purposes of this Final Order and Judgment, the Court adopts and incorporates the definitions contained in the Stipulation.
2. This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of the Action and over all parties to this Action.
3. The Court finds that notice was given to Current CMS Shareholders in compliance with the Court's July , 2005 Order Approving Notice and Scheduling Hearing.
     
4. The Court finds that both the forms of the notice given and the procedure used to give notice fully satisfy the requirements of Section 496 of the Michigan Business Corporation Act (the "MBCA"), MCL 450.1496, the Constitution of the United States and any other applicable law.
5. Pursuant to the MBCA and for purposes of settlement only, the Court finds that the Action was properly brought as a derivative action for and on behalf of CMS, and that Plaintiff fairly and adequately represents the interests of shareholders similarly situated in enforcing the rights of CMS in the Action.
6. The Court finds that the proposed settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate, and in the best interests of CMS and its shareholders, approves the proposed settlement, and directs consummation of the settlement pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation.
7. The Court further finds that the proposed settlement has been made in good faith, and that the Plaintiff and Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel have fairly and adequately represented the interests of CMS in connection with the Action and the proposed settlement.
8. The proposed settlement shall be effective upon entry of this Final Order and Judgment. 9. Upon entry of this Final Order and Judgment, the Action will be dismissed with prejudice.
10. Upon entry of this Final Order and Judgment, the following persons will be released (the "Released Persons") with respect to the Released Claims (as defined below): CMS, the SLC, Defendants, all of the past or present directors, officers, managers, employees, partners, members, principals, agents, underwriters, insurers, co-insurers, reinsurers, controlling shareholders, attorneys, banks or investment banks, associates, personal or legal representatives, predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, joint ventures, and assigns of CMS, and the Defendants' spouses, heirs, executors, administrators, related or affiliated entities, any entity in which a Defendant has a controlling interest, any members of their immediate families, or any trust of which any Defendant is the settlor or which is for the benefit of any Defendant and/or member(s) of his or her family.
11. Upon the entry of this Final Order and Judgment, the following claims will be released (the "Released Claims") with respect to the Released Persons: all claims (including "Unknown Claims," as defined below), demands, rights, liabilities and causes of action of every nature and description whatsoever, known or unknown, whether or not concealed or hidden, asserted or that might have been asserted by any Current CMS Shareholders derivatively on behalf of CMS in the Action, that are based upon or related in any way to the facts, circumstances, transactions, events, occurrences, disclosures, statements, omissions, acts or failures to act which were alleged or could have been alleged in the Action (, round-trip trading, compensation, insider trading, misappropriation of corporate information, oversight, internal controls, accounting, trading and any securities offering to date), including, without limitation, claims for negligence, gross negligence, breach of duty of care and/or breach of duty of loyalty, fraud, constructive fraud, self-dealing, misrepresentation (whether intentional, negligent or innocent), omission (whether intentional, negligent or innocent), mismanagement, gross mismanagement, abuse of control, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty or violations of any state statute, rules or regulations or any other source of legal or equitable obligation of any kind or description in whatever forum, and any alleged defects in the approval process for and notice of the proposed settlement.
e.g.
12. The Released Claims shall not include those claims asserted under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78j(b) & 78t, by plaintiffs in a related consolidated securities class action involving round-trip energy trading pending before the Michigan federal courts, entitled , Case No. 02-CV-72004-DT, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "Federal Securities Action"), and those claims asserted under 29 U.S.C.  1104-1107 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by plaintiffs in , Case No. 02-CV-72834 DT, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "ERISA Action").
bona
fide
In re CMS Energy Securities Litigation
bona
fide
In re CMS Energy ERISA Litigation
13. The term "Unknown Claims" in the definition of the Released Claims means any Released Claims which Plaintiff, CMS and/or any Current CMS Shareholder does not know or suspect to exist in his, her or its favor at the time of the release of the Released Persons which, if known by him, her or it, might have affected his, her or its settlement with and release of the Released Persons, or might have affected his, her or its decision not to object to this settlement. Plaintiff, CMS and/or Current CMS Shareholders may hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those which they now know or believe to be true with respect to the subject matter of the Released Claims, but Plaintiff, CMS and Current CMS Shareholders shall expressly, upon the Effective Date of this Final Order and Judgment, be deemed to have, and by operation of the Final Order and Judgment shall have, fully, finally, and forever settled and released any and all Released Claims, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, contingent or noncontingent, whether or not concealed or hidden, which now exist, or heretofore have existed upon any theory of law or equity now existing or coming into existence as a result of such different or additional facts. Plaintiff acknowledges, and Current CMS Shareholders shall be deemed by operation of the Final Order and Judgment to have acknowledged, that the foregoing waiver was separately bargained for and a key element of the settlement of which this release is a material and essential part and expressly waive: (a) the benefits of the provisions of Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides that ; and (b) the benefits of any comparable law, statute, regulation or legal principle of any other jurisdiction.
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor"
14. Upon the Effective Date of this Final Order and Judgment, Plaintiff, CMS and Current CMS Shareholders are permanently enjoined from the institution, maintenance or prosecution, either directly or indirectly, of any other action in the Court or proceeding asserting any of the Settled Claims (as defined below).
15. The term "Settled Claims" includes the Released Claims against the Released Persons.
16. Without affecting the finality of this Final Order and Judgment in any manner, this Court retains jurisdiction: (a) over the implementation, administration and consummation of the settlement; (b) over the Action until the Final Order and Judgment contemplated hereby has become effective and each and every act agreed to be performed by the parties to the Stipulation shall have been performed pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation; and (c) over all of the parties to the Action as may be necessary to conclude and administer the settlement and to implement and enforce the Stipulation.
17. The Court awards attorneys' fees and expenses to Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel in the Action in the amount of $. The Court finds the fees and expenses to be fair and reasonable.
     
18. Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel are authorized and directed to allocate and distribute the fees and expenses among all Plaintiff's counsel in a manner which, in Plaintiff's Settlement Counsel's good-faith determination, reflects each counsel's, contribution to the institution, prosecution and settlement of the Action.
19. The Court finds that no just reason exists for delay in entering this Final Order and Judgment in accordance with the Stipulation. Accordingly, the Clerk is hereby directed to enter this Final Order and Judgment.
20. Pursuant to Rule 2.602(A)(3) of the Michigan Court Rules, the Court states that this Final Order and Judgment disposes of the last pending claims and closes the case.


