FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20050127111258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Approval of Resource Conservation Plan Consumers Energy Company ("Consumers") purchases power under a long term contract from a natural gas-fueled combined-cycle cogeneration facility (the "MCV Facility") operated by the Midland Cogeneration Venture Limited Partnership (the "MCV Partnership"), in which Consumers has a 49 percent interest. In February 2004, Consumers filed with the Michigan Public Service Commission (the "MPSC") a request for approval of a resource conservation plan (the "RCP"). On January 25, 2005, the MPSC issued an order approving the RCP, with modifications. The terms of the order are consistent with Consumers expectations in the RCP proceeding. The purpose of the RCP is to help conserve natural gas and thereby improve Consumers investment in the MCV Partnership as discussed below, without raising the costs paid by Consumers electric customers. The RCP allows for a change in the operation of the MCV Facility to dispatch it on the basis of natural gas ma rket prices. This change will reduce the MCV Facilitys production of electricity and consumption of natural gas by an estimated 30 to 40 billion cubic feet annually. The substantial MCV Facility fuel cost savings will be used first to offset fully the cost of replacement power to Consumers electric customers. Second, $5 million annually will be used to fund a renewable energy program. Remaining savings will be split between the MCV Partnership and Consumers. Consumers direct savings will be shared 50 percent with its customers in 2005 and 70 percent in 2006 and beyond. In addition, the RCP subjects a larger portion of the MCV Facilitys gas contracts to mark-to-market accounting. Based upon current market gas prices, this is expected to result in a gain in Consumers 2005 earnings. Consumers and the MCV Partnerships general partners have accepted the terms of the order and are implementing the RCP. The order is available on the MPSC website at www. michigan.gov/mpsc and attached as an exhibit hereto is Consumers news release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 99.1 Consumers Energy Company News Release dated January 27, 2005
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energy Corporations and Consumers Forms 10-Q for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2004 (both incorporated herein by reference), that discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energy Corporations and Consumers results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

JACKSON, Mich., Jan. 27, 2005  Consumers Energy's 1.75 million electric customers and the state's renewable energy efforts will benefit from a decision by the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC), the utility's president said today.
The MPSC action on Tuesday will reduce electric costs for customers by an estimated $14 million or more this year, conserve 30 billion to 40 billion cubic feet of natural gas annually, and some of the overall savings will provide $5 million a year for renewable energy projects.
"The conservation of natural gas and the savings to customers definitely make this a win-win situation. On top of that, this order also provides funding to support significant renewable energy development in Michigan," said John Russell, Consumers Energy's president and chief operating officer.
"We appreciate the MPSC's action on this important case, which will help address the long-term energy needs of our state and its residents and businesses," he added.
Under the MPSC order, Consumers Energy will reduce the amount of electricity it uses from the gas-fired Midland Cogeneration Venture (MCV) and replace it from lower-cost sources. That will allow the MCV to conserve 30 billion to 40 billion cubic feet of natural gas a year, enough to serve about 300,000 homes. The MCV can produce up to 1,500 megawatts of electricity and up to 1.35 million pounds per hour of steam for industrial use.
The net savings will be shared with the utility's customers, reducing their electric costs by an estimated $14 million or more this year.
Russell said Consumers Energy and the MCV general partners have accepted the terms of the order and are implementing the conservation program.
Consumers Energy, the principal subsidiary of CMS Energy, provides natural gas and electricity to more than six million of the state's nearly 10 million residents in all 68 Lower Peninsula counties.
# # #
For more information about Consumers Energy, visit our Website at
www.consumersenergy.com
Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395


