FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20061011092140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 10, 2006, acting through a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, CMS Enterprises Company ("CMS Enterprises"), in turn a wholly-owned subsidiary of CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy"), signed a series of agreements (the "Agreements") to participate in and co-develop the Prairie State Energy Campus ("Prairie State") with Peabody Energy Corp. Prairie State is a 1,600 megawatt mine-mouth power plant project in southern Illinois, about 40 miles southeast of St. Louis, Missouri. CMS Enterprises will indirectly own 15% of the project and will serve as lead developer, construction manager, and operator of the power plant. Prior to financial close, upon notice any party may terminate its participation in the project. Financial close is, among other things, contingent upon the parties being able to secure:  Non-recourse project financing;  An engineering, procurement, and construction contract for the power plant; and  Long-term power purchase agreements for a subst antial portion of CMS Enterprises and Peabody Energy Corp.s share of the projects output. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a CMS Energy News Release dated October 11, 2006, which provides more information about Prairie State.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 CMS Energys News Release dated October 11, 2006
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS each found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energys Form 10-K/A and as updated in its subsequently filed Forms 10-Q (the FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections are incorporated herein by reference), that discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energys results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

JACKSON, Mich., Oct. 11, 2006  CMS Enterprises, a subsidiary of CMS Energy, announced today that it has signed agreements with Peabody Energy to co-develop the Prairie State Energy Campus, a 1,600-megawatt power plant and coal mine in southern Illinois.
"Selecting CMS Enterprises as operator marks significant progress in our development process, allowing Prairie State to move forward with a recognized leader to deliver clean, low-cost energy for the region," said Peabody President of Generation and Btu Conversion Rick A. Bowen. "CMS Enterprises brings terrific expertise in power plant construction and operations that complements Peabody's skills."
"We're excited about our partnership with Peabody Energy and the opportunities presented by the Prairie State Energy Campus. This business brings together the strengths of both companies," said Thomas Elward, president and chief operating officer of CMS Enterprises.
CMS Enterprises and Peabody Energy will co-develop and each own 15 percent of Prairie State indirectly through a jointly owned limited liability company. The remainder is expected to be owned by a number of Midwest municipal utilities and electric cooperatives with commitments already secured for 53 percent of the ownership.
CMS Enterprises will serve as lead developer, construction manager, and operator of the mine-mouth power plant, which will be able to generate enough power to serve a million people. Peabody Energy  the largest private sector coal producer in the world  will be lead developer of the Lively Grove Mine that will fuel the power plant for an estimated 30 years. The plant and mine site is about 40 miles southeast of St. Louis, near Lively Grove. Ill.
Financial close of the project is contingent upon Peabody and CMS Enterprises being able to secure:
CMS Enterprises and Peabody Energy are optimistic that those conditions can be met for a financial close. An engineering, procurement, and construction contract for the power plant is being negotiated. The plant cost is estimated to be in excess of $2.5 billion. CMS Enterprises expects to make a long-term equity investment of about $200 million at the completion of construction.
Construction of the first 800-megawatt generating unit is expected to take about four years to complete and the second 800-megawatt unit will be completed shortly afterward.
David Joos, CMS Energy's president and chief executive officer, said Prairie State fits well into the Company's strategy of pursuing growth opportunities at CMS Enterprises while focusing on its Michigan utility, Consumers Energy.
"We are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy at CMS Enterprises. That strategy is focused on enhancing future earnings and cash flow with low financial risk. With the Prairie State Energy Campus, we will have a strong partnership team, long-term power purchase contracts, and extremely stable fuel costs. It's an opportunity that also allows CMS Enterprises to utilize its main strengths, building and operating power plants," Joos said.
Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company, with 2005 sales of 240 million tons of coal and $4.6 billion in revenues. Its coal products fuel more than 10 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and 3 percent of worldwide electricity.
CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) is a Michigan-based company that has as its primary business operations an electric and natural gas utility, natural gas pipeline systems, and independent power generation.
For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our web site at:
www.cmsenergy.com
CMS Enterprises Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395
Peabody Energy Media Contact: Beth Sutton, 314/342-7798
CMS Energy Investment Analyst Contact: CMS Energy Investor Relations, 517/788-2590


