FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20070403162253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 30, 2007 Consumers Energy Company ("Consumers") entered into a $500 million Secured Revolving Credit Facility (the "Consumers Facility") with a consortium of banks led by J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JP Morgan") and Barclays Capital ("Barclays"). On April 2, 2007 CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") entered into a $300 Million Secured Revolving Credit Facility (the "CMS Facility") with a consortium of banks led by Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. ("Citigroup") and Union Bank of California ("Union Bank"). Both the CMS Facility and the Consumers Facility have 5 year terms and replace revolving credit facilities that were set to expire in May of 2010 in the same respective amounts and under substantially the same terms. Several terms did change including the elimination of dividend restrictions in both Facilities and the elimination of the interest coverage financial covenant in the Consumers Facility. Also, the CMS Facility is no longer secured by stock of CMS Energys wholly owned subsidi ary CMS Enterprises Company and certain other indirect CMS Energy subsidiaries. Barclays, Citigroup, JP Morgan and Union Bank and other members of the lending consortium have provided banking and underwriting services to CMS Energy and Consumers in the ordinary course of business. The foregoing description of the CMS Facility and the Consumers Facility does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the CMS Facility and the Consumers Facility, respectively, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 10.1 $500 million Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 30, 2007 between Consumers Energy Company, the Banks, the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent, Syndication Agent and Documentation Agents all as defined therein. 10.2 $300 million Seventh Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2007 among CMS Energy Corporation, the Banks, the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent, Syndication Agent and Documentation Agents all as defined therein.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS each found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energys Form 10-K and Consumers Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 (CMS Energys and Consumers FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections are incorporated herein by reference), that discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energys and Consumers results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
SCHEDULES
EXHIBITS
This Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007, is among Consumers Energy Company, a Michigan corporation (the "Company"), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof (together with their respective successors and assigns, the "Banks") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as Agent and as an LC Issuer.
WHEREAS, the Company has requested, and the Banks have agreed to enter into, a credit facility in an aggregate amount of $500,000,000;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.1 . As used in this Agreement:
Definitions
"Accounting Changes"  see .
Section 1.3
"Administrative Questionnaire" means an administrative questionnaire, substantially in the form supplied by the Agent, completed by a Bank and furnished to the Agent in connection with this Agreement.
"Advance" means a group of Loans made by the Banks hereunder of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same day and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period.
"Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including all directors and officers of such Person), controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control another entity if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as administrative agent for the Banks pursuant to , and not in its individual capacity as a Bank, and any successor Agent appointed pursuant to .
Article XIII
Article XIII
"Aggregate Commitment" means the aggregate amount of the Commitments of all Banks.
"Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure" means, at any time, the aggregate of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of all the Banks.
"Agreement" means this Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended from time to time.
"Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) the Prime Rate for such day and (ii) the sum of the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day plus 1/2% per annum.
"Applicable Margin" means, with respect to Advances of any Type at any time, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to Advances of such Type as set forth in .
Schedule 1
"Arrangers"  see .
Section 13.12
"Assignment Agreement"  see .
Section 12.1(e)
"Available Aggregate Commitment" means, at any time, the Available Commitment then in effect minus the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure at such time.
"Available Commitment" means, at any time, the lesser of (i) the Aggregate Commitment and (ii) the face amount of the Bonds.
"Banks"  see the preamble.
"Base Eurodollar Rate" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the per annum interest rate determined by the offered rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars, for a period equal or comparable to such Interest Period, appears on page 3750 (or any successor page) of the Dow Jones Market Service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or in the event such offered rate is not available from the Dow Jones Market Service page, the rate offered on deposits in U.S. dollars, for a period equal or comparable to such Interest Period, by JPMorgan's London Office to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time), two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and in an amount substantially equal to the amount of JPMorgan's relevant Eurodollar Rate Loan for such Interest Period.
"Bond Delivery Agreement" means a bond delivery agreement whereby the Agent (x) acknowledges delivery of the Bonds and (y) agrees to hold the Bonds for the benefit of the Banks and to distribute all payments made by the Company on account thereof to the Banks, substantially in the form of .
Exhibit G
"Bonds" means a series of interest-bearing First Mortgage Bonds created under the Supplemental Indenture issued in favor of, and in form and substance satisfactory to, the Agent.
"Borrowing Date" means a date on which a Credit Extension is made hereunder.
"Borrowing Notice"  see .
Section 2.8
"Business Day" means (i) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurodollar Advances, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York, New York for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities, interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system and dealings in United States dollars are carried on in the London interbank market and (ii) for all other purposes, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York, New York for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
"Capital Lease" means any lease which has been or would be capitalized on the books of the lessee in accordance with GAAP.
"CMS" means CMS Energy Corporation, a Michigan corporation.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
"Collateral Shortfall Amount"  see .
Section 9.2
"Commitment" means, for each Bank, the obligation of such Bank to make Loans to, and participate in Facility LCs issued upon the application of, the Company in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount set forth on or as set forth in any Assignment Agreement that has become effective pursuant to , as such amount may be modified from time to time.
Schedule 2
Section 12.1
"Commitment Fee"  see .
Section 2.5
"Commitment Fee Rate" means, at any time, the percentage rate per annum at which Commitment Fees are accruing on the Unused Commitment as set forth in .
Schedule 1
"Company"  see the preamble.
"Consolidated Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary the accounts of which are or are required to be consolidated with the accounts of the Company in accordance with GAAP.
"Credit Documents" means this Agreement, the Facility LC Applications, the Supplemental Indenture, any promissory note issued pursuant to and the Bonds.
Section 2.13
"Credit Extension" means the making of an Advance or the issuance of a Facility LC hereunder.
"Debt" means, with respect to any Person, and without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all indebtedness of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue), (c) all liabilities arising from any accumulated funding deficiency (as defined in Section 412(a) of the Code) for a Plan, (d) all liabilities arising in connection with any withdrawal liability under ERISA to any Multiemployer Plan, (e) all obligations of such Person arising under acceptance facilities, (f) all obligations of such Person as lessee under Capital Leases, (g) all obligations of such Person arising under any interest rate swap, "cap", "collar" or other hedging agreement; that for purposes of the calculation of Debt for this only, the actual amount of Debt of such Person shall be determined on a net basis to the extent such agreements permit such amounts to be calculated on a net basis, and (h) all guaranties, endorsements (other than for collection in the ordinary course of business) and other contingent obligations of such Person to assure a creditor against loss (whether by the purchase of goods or services, the provision of funds for payment, the supply of funds to invest in any Person or otherwise) in respect of indebtedness or obligations of any other Person of the kinds referred to in through above.
provided
clause (g)
clauses (a)
(g)
"Default" means an event which but for the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
"Designated Officer" means the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, any Vice President in charge of financial or accounting matters or the principal accounting officer of the Company.
"Environmental Laws" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any governmental agency or authority relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or to health and safety matters.
"Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Substance, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Substance, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
"ERISA Affiliate" means any corporation or trade or business which is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code) as the Company or is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code) with the Company.
"Eurodollar Advance" means an Advance consisting of Eurodollar Rate Loans.
"Eurodollar Rate" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the relevant Interest Period, an interest rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) the quotient obtained by dividing (a) the Base Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Interest Period by (b) one minus the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, plus (ii) the Applicable Margin.
"Eurodollar Rate Loan" means a Loan which bears interest by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.
"Event of Default" means an event described in .
Article IX
"Excluded Taxes" means, in the case of each Bank, LC Issuer or applicable Lending Installation and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by (i) the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Bank, such LC Issuer or the Agent is incorporated or organized or (ii) the jurisdiction in which the Agent's, such LC Issuer's or such Bank's principal executive office or such Bank's or such LC Issuer's applicable Lending Installation is located.
"Existing Facility LC" means each letter of credit issued under the Prior Agreement that is listed on .
Schedule 3
"Facility LC"  see . The term "Facility LC" includes each Existing Facility LC.
Section 3.1
"Facility LC Application"  see .
Section 3.3
"Facility LC Collateral Account" means a special, interest-bearing account maintained (pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Agent) at the Agent's office at the address specified pursuant to , which account shall be in the name of the Company but under the sole dominium and control of the Agent, for the benefit of the Banks.
Article XII
"Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations at approximately 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Agent in its sole discretion.
"Fee Letter" means the fee letter referred to in .
Section 13.12
"First Mortgage Bonds" means bonds issued by the Company pursuant to the Indenture.
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc. or any successor thereto.
"Floating Rate" means a rate per annum equal to (i) the Alternate Base Rate plus (ii) the Applicable Margin, changing when and as the Alternate Base Rate or the Applicable Margin changes.
"Floating Rate Advance" means an Advance consisting of Floating Rate Loans.
"Floating Rate Loan" means a Loan which bears interest at the Floating Rate.
"FMB Release Date" means the date on which the Bonds are released pursuant to .
Article XVII
"FRB" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any successor thereto.
"GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect on the date hereof, applied on a basis consistent with those used in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in (except, for purposes of the financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to and , for changes concurred in by the Company's independent public accountants).
Section 5.5
Sections 6.7(b)
(c)
"Hazardous Substance" means any waste, substance or material identified as hazardous, dangerous or toxic by any office, agency, department, commission, board, bureau or instrumentality of the United States or of the State or locality in which the same is located having or exercising jurisdiction over such waste, substance or material.
"Hybrid Equity Securities" means securities issued by the Company or a Hybrid Equity Securities Subsidiary that (i) are classified as possessing a minimum of at least two of the following: (x) "intermediate equity content" by S&P; (y) "Basket C equity credit" by Moody's; and (z) "50% equity credit" by Fitch and (ii) require no repayment, prepayment, mandatory redemption or mandatory repurchase prior to the date that is at least 91 days after the later of the termination of the Commitments and the repayment in full of all Obligations.
"Hybrid Equity Securities Subsidiary" means any Delaware business trust (or similar entity) (i) all of the common equity interest of which is owned (either directly or indirectly through one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of the Company) at all times by the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) that has been formed for the purpose of issuing Hybrid Equity Securities and (iii) substantially all of the assets of which consist at all times solely of Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company (as the case may be) and payments made from time to time on such Junior Subordinated Debt.
"Hybrid Preferred Securities" means any preferred securities issued by a Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary, where such preferred securities have the following characteristics:
(i) such Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary lends substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance of such preferred securities to the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company in exchange for Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company or such wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary, respectively;
(ii) such preferred securities contain terms providing for the deferral of interest payments corresponding to provisions providing for the deferral of interest payments on such Junior Subordinated Debt; and
(iii) the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company (as the case may be) makes periodic interest payments on such Junior Subordinated Debt, which interest payments are in turn used by the Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary to make corresponding payments to the holders of the preferred securities.
"Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary" means any Delaware business trust (or similar entity) (i) all of the common equity interest of which is owned (either directly or indirectly through one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of the Company) at all times by the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) that has been formed for the purpose of issuing Hybrid Preferred Securities and (iii) substantially all of the assets of which consist at all times solely of Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company (as the case may be) and payments made from time to time on such Junior Subordinated Debt.
"Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1945, as supplemented and amended from time to time, from the Company to The Bank of New York, as successor Trustee.
"Initial Borrowing Date" means March 30, 2007.
"Interest Period" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance, a period of one, two, three or six months, or such shorter period agreed to by the Company and the Banks, commencing on a Business Day selected by the Company pursuant to this Agreement. Such Interest Period shall end on the day which corresponds numerically to such date one, two, three or six months thereafter (or such shorter period agreed to by the Company and the Banks); that if there is no such numerically corresponding day in such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month (or such shorter period, as applicable), such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month (or such shorter period, as applicable). If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day; that if said next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day. The Company may not select any Interest Period that ends after the scheduled Termination Date.
provided
provided
"JPMorgan" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its individual capacity, and its successors and assigns.
"Junior Subordinated Debt" means any unsecured Debt of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company that is (i) issued in exchange for the proceeds of Hybrid Equity Securities or Hybrid Preferred Securities and (ii) subordinated to the rights of the Banks hereunder and under the other Credit Documents pursuant to terms of subordination substantially similar to those set forth in , or pursuant to other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Majority Banks.
Exhibit E
"LC Fee"  see .
Section 3.4
"LC Issuer" means JPMorgan (or any subsidiary or affiliate of JPMorgan designated by JPMorgan) in its capacity as an issuer of Facility LCs hereunder, and any other Bank designated by the Company that (i) agrees to be an issuer of Facility LCs hereunder and (ii) is approved by the Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
"LC Obligations" means, at any time, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate undrawn stated amount under all Facility LCs outstanding at such time plus (ii) the aggregate unpaid amount at such time of all Reimbursement Obligations.
"LC Payment Date"  see .
Section 3.5
"Lending Installation" means any office, branch, subsidiary or affiliate of a Bank.
"Lien" means any lien (statutory or otherwise), security interest, mortgage, deed of trust, priority, pledge, charge, conditional sale, title retention agreement, financing lease or other encumbrance or similar right of others, or any agreement to give any of the foregoing.
"Loan"  see .
Section 2.1
"Majority Banks" means, as of any date of determination, Banks in the aggregate having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment as of such date or, if the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, Banks in the aggregate holding more than 50% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure as of such date.
"Material Adverse Change" means any event, development or circumstance that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) the Company's ability to perform its obligations under any Credit Document or (c) the validity or enforceability of any Credit Document or the rights or remedies of the Agent or the Banks thereunder.
"Modify" and "Modification"  see .
Section 3.1
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor thereto.
"Multiemployer Plan" means a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
"Net Proceeds" means, with respect to any sale or issuance of securities or incurrence of Debt by any Person, the excess of (i) the gross cash proceeds received by or on behalf of such Person in respect of such sale, issuance or incurrence (as the case may be) over (ii) customary underwriting commissions, auditing and legal fees, printing costs, rating agency fees and other customary and reasonable fees and expenses incurred by such Person in connection therewith.
"Net Worth" means, with respect to any Person, the excess of such Person's total assets over its total liabilities, total assets and total liabilities each to be determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, excluding from the determination of total assets (i) goodwill, organizational expenses, research and development expenses, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent applications, licenses and rights in any thereof, and other similar intangibles, (ii) cash held in a sinking or other analogous fund established for the purpose of redemption, retirement or prepayment of capital stock or Debt, and (iii) any item not included in or above, that is treated as an intangible asset in conformity with GAAP.
clause (i)
(ii)
"Obligations" means all unpaid principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, all Reimbursement Obligations, all accrued and unpaid fees and all other obligations of the Company to the Banks or to any Bank, any LC Issuer or the Agent arising under the Credit Documents.
"Off-Balance Sheet Liability" of a Person means (i) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (ii) any liability under any sale and leaseback transaction which is not a Capital Lease, (iii) any liability under any so-called "synthetic lease" transaction entered into by such Person, or (iv) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheet of such Person, but excluding from this Operating Leases.
clause (iv)
"Operating Lease" of a Person means any lease of Property (other than a Capital Lease) by such Person as lessee.
"Other Taxes"  see .
Section 4.5(b)
"Outstanding Credit Exposure" means, as to any Bank at any time, the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of its Loans outstanding at such time, plus (ii) an amount equal to its Pro Rata Share of the LC Obligations at such time.
"Payment Date" means the second Business Day of each calendar quarter occurring after the Initial Borrowing Date.
"PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
"Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, governmental authority or other entity of whatever nature.
"Plan" means any employee benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate and covered by Title IV of ERISA.
"Plan Termination Event" means (a) a Reportable Event described in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder (other than a Reportable Event not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations), (b) the withdrawal of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Plan during a plan year in which it was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA, (c) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, or (d) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan.
"Prime Rate" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced from time to time by JPMorgan or its parent (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer), changing when and as said prime rate changes.
"Prior Agreement" means the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 18, 2005 among the Company, various financial institutions and JPMorgan, as Agent, as amended.
"Property" of a Person means any and all property, whether real, personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned, leased or operated by such Person.
"Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to a Bank, a portion equal to a fraction the numerator of which is such Bank's Commitment and the denominator of which is the Aggregate Commitment.
"Regulation D" means Regulation D of the FRB from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of the FRB relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
"Regulation U" means Regulation U of the FRB from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of the FRB relating to the extension of credit by banks, non-banks and non-broker-dealers for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks.
"Reimbursement Obligations" means, at any time, the aggregate of all obligations of the Company then outstanding under to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer for amounts paid by such LC Issuer in respect of any one or more drawings under Facility LCs issued by such LC Issuer.
Article III
"Reportable Event" has the meaning assigned to that term in Title IV of ERISA.
"Reserve Requirement" means, with respect to an Interest Period, the maximum aggregate reserve requirement (including all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves) which is imposed under Regulation D on Eurocurrency liabilities.
"S&P" means Standard and Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto.
"SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any governmental authority which may be substituted therefor.
"Securitized Bonds" means nonrecourse bonds or similar asset-backed securities issued by a special-purpose Subsidiary of the Company which are payable solely from specialized charges authorized by the utility commission of the relevant state in connection with the recovery of (x) stranded regulatory costs, (y) stranded clean air and pension costs and (z) other "Qualified Costs" (as defined in M.C.L. 460.10h(g)) authorized to be securitized by the Michigan Public Service Commission.
"Senior Debt" means the First Mortgage Bonds.
"Single Employer Plan" means a Plan maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
"Subsidiary" means, as to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which at least a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power (absolutely or contingently) for the election of directors or other Persons performing similar functions are at the time owned directly or indirectly by such Person.
"Supplemental Indenture" means a supplemental indenture substantially in the form of .
Exhibit A
"Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities with respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes.
"Termination Date" means the earlier of (i) March 30, 2012 and (ii) the date on which the Commitments are terminated.
"Total Consolidated Capitalization" means, at any date of determination, without duplication, the sum of (a) Total Consolidated Debt plus all amounts excluded from Total Consolidated Debt pursuant to , , , and of the proviso to the definition of such term (but only, in the case of securities of the type described in or of such proviso, to the extent such securities have been deemed to be equity pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 150), (b) equity of the common stockholders of the Company, (c) equity of the preference stockholders of the Company and (d) equity of the preferred stockholders of the Company, in each case determined at such date.
clauses (ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(vi)
(vii)
clause (iii)
(iv)
"Total Consolidated Debt" means, at any date of determination, the aggregate Debt of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries; that Total Consolidated Debt shall exclude, without duplication, (i) the principal amount of any Securitized Bonds, (ii) any Junior Subordinated Debt owned by any Hybrid Equity Securities Subsidiary or Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary, (iii) Hybrid Equity Securities or Hybrid Preferred Securities outstanding as of December 31, 2002 (including any guaranty by the Company of payments with respect to such Hybrid Equity Securities or Hybrid Preferred Securities, that such guaranty is subordinated to the rights of the Banks hereunder and under the other Credit Documents pursuant to terms of subordination substantially similar to those set forth in , or pursuant to other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Majority Banks), (iv) such percentage of the Net Proceeds from any issuance of hybrid debt/equity securities (other than Junior Subordinated Debt, Hybrid Equity Securities and Hybrid Preferred Securities) by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary as shall be agreed to be deemed equity by the Agent and the Company prior to the issuance thereof (which determination shall be based on, among other things, the treatment (if any) given to such securities by the applicable rating agencies), (v) if all or any portion of the disposition of the Company's Palisades Nuclear Plant is required to be accounted for as a financing under GAAP rather than as a sale, the amount of liabilities reflected on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as the result of such disposition, (vi) obligations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries of the type described in , (vii) Debt of any Affiliate of the Company that is (1) consolidated on the financial statements of the Company solely as a result of the effect and application of Financial Accounting Standards Board No. 46 and of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, as modified by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 94, and (2) non-recourse to the Company or any of its Affiliates (other than the primary obligor of such Debt and any of its Subsidiaries), (viii) Debt of the Company and its Affiliates that is re-categorized as such from certain lease obligations pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue 01-8, any subsequent EITF Issue or recommendation or other interpretation, bulletin or other similar document by the Financial Accounting Standards Board on or related to such re-categorization and (ix) any non-cash obligations resulting from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 158 and any proposed amendment thereto, to the extent such obligations are required to be treated as debt.
provided
provided
Exhibit F
Section 1.3
"Type"  see .
Section 2.4
"Unused Commitment" means, at any time, the Aggregate Commitment then in effect minus the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure at such time.
"USA Patriot Act" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56, 115 Stat. 272 (2001), as amended.
"Utilization Fee Rate" means, at any time, the percentage rate per annum at which utilization fees are accruing at such time as set forth in .
Schedule 1
1.2 .
Interpretation
(a) The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
(b) The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."
(c) Unless otherwise specified, each reference to an , , and means an Article or Section of or an Exhibit or Schedule to this Agreement.
Article
Section
Exhibit
Schedule
1.3 . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP.. If any changes in generally accepted accounting principles are hereafter required or permitted and are adopted by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall change its application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to any Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities (including the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Nos. 45 and 46 and Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 150), in each case with the agreement of its independent certified public accountants, and such changes result in a change in the method of calculation of any of the financial covenants, tests, restrictions or standards herein or in the related definitions or terms used therein (""), the parties hereto agree, at the Company's request, to enter into negotiations, in good faith, in order to amend such provisions in a credit neutral manner so as to reflect equitably such changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the Company's and its Subsidiaries' financial condition shall be the same after such changes as if such changes had not been made; that, until such provisions are amended in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Majority Banks, no Accounting Change shall be given effect in such calculations. In the event such amendment is entered into, all references in this Agreement to GAAP shall mean generally accepted accounting principles as of the date of such amendment.
Accounting Terms
Accounting Changes
provided
2.1 . From and including the Initial Borrowing Date and prior to the Termination Date, each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, (a) to make loans to the Company from time to time (the ""), and (b) to participate in Facility LCs issued upon the request of the Company from time to time; that, after giving effect to the making of each such Loan and the issuance of each such Facility LC, such Bank's Outstanding Credit Exposure shall not exceed its Commitment. In no event may the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure exceed the Available Commitment. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company may borrow, repay and reborrow at any time prior to the Termination Date. The Commitments shall expire on the Termination Date.
Commitment
Loans
provided
2.2 . The Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure and all other unpaid obligations of the Company hereunder shall be paid in full on the Termination Date.
Repayment
2.3 . Each Advance shall consist of Loans made by the several Banks ratably according to their Pro Rata Shares.
Ratable Loans
2.4 . The Advances may be Floating Rate Advances or Eurodollar Advances (each a "" of Advance), or a combination thereof, as selected by the Company in accordance with and .
Types of Advances
Type
Sections 2.8
2.9
2.5 .
Fees and Changes in Commitments
(a) The Company agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Bank according to its Pro Rata Share (i) a commitment fee (the "") at the Commitment Fee Rate on the daily Unused Commitment from the Initial Borrowing Date to but not including the date on which this Agreement is terminated in full and all of the Obligations hereunder have been paid in full and (ii) a utilization fee at the Utilization Fee Rate on such Bank's Outstanding Credit Exposure for any date on which the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure exceeds 50% of the Aggregate Commitment. The fees payable pursuant to this shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Payment Date (for the quarter then most recently ended) and on the Termination Date (for the period then ended for which such fee has not previously been paid) and shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360 day year.
Commitment Fee
clause (a)
(b) The Company may permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitment in whole, or in part ratably among the Banks in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 (and in multiples of $1,000,000 if in excess thereof), upon at least five Business Days' written notice to the Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such reduction; that the Aggregate Commitment may not be reduced below the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. All accrued Commitment Fees shall be payable on the effective date of any termination of the obligation of the Banks to make Credit Extensions hereunder. Upon any permanent reduction in the Aggregate Commitment pursuant to the terms of this , the Agent shall, upon request of the Company, promptly surrender to or upon the order of the Company one or more Bonds specified by the Company; that the Company remains in compliance with .
provided
Section 2.5(b)
provided
Section 6.10
(c) The Company may, from time to time, by means of a letter delivered to the Agent substantially in the form of , request that the Aggregate Commitment be increased by up to $250,000,000 (in the aggregate during the term of this Agreement) by (i) increasing the Commitment of one or more Banks which have agreed to such increase in writing pursuant to the procedures described below (it being understood that no Bank has any obligation to agree to such increase) and/or (ii) adding one or more commercial banks or other Persons as a party hereto (each an "") with a Commitment in an amount agreed to by any such Additional Bank; that no Additional Bank shall be added as a party hereto without the written consent of the Agent and each LC Issuer (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld) or if a Default or an Event of Default exists. Any increase in the Aggregate Commitment pursuant to this shall be effective three Business Days (or such other reasonable period of time as may be specified by the Agent) after the date on which the Agent has received (A) the applicable increase letter in the form of to (in the case of an increase in the Commitment of an existing Bank) or assumption letter in the form of to (in the case of the addition of a commercial bank or other Person as a new Bank), in each case signed by all applicable parties; and (b) if the requested increase is to occur before the FMB Release Date and, after giving effect to such increase, the Aggregate Commitment would exceed the face amount of all Bonds, additional Bonds in an amount not less than such excess together with such certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents as the Agent may reasonably request in connection with the issuance and delivery of such Bonds.. The Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Banks of any increase in the amount of the Aggregate Commitment pursuant to this and of the Pro Rata Share of each Bank after giving effect thereto. The parties hereto agree that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Agent, the Company, each Additional Bank and each increasing Bank, as applicable, may make arrangements satisfactory to such parties to cause an Additional Bank or an increasing Bank to temporarily hold risk participations in the outstanding Loans of the other Banks (rather than fund its Percentage of all outstanding Loans concurrently with the applicable increase) with a view toward minimizing breakage costs and transfers of funds in connection with any increase in the Aggregate Commitment. The Company acknowledges that if, as a result of an increase in the Aggregate Commitment that is not pro rata among the existing Banks, any Eurodollar Rate Loan is prepaid or converted (in whole or in part) on a day other than the last day of an Interest Period therefor, then such prepayment or conversion shall be subject to the provisions of .
Exhibit H
Additional Bank
provided
clause (c)
Annex 1
Exhibit H
Annex 2
Exhibit H
clause (c)
Section 4.4
2.6 . Each Advance shall be in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 if in excess thereof); that any Floating Rate Advance may be in the amount of the Available Aggregate Commitment (rounded down, if necessary, to an integral multiple of $1,000,000).
Minimum Amount of Advances
provided
2.7 . The Company may from time to time prepay, without penalty or premium, all outstanding Floating Rate Advances or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000, any portion of the outstanding Floating Rate Advances upon one Business Day's prior notice to the Agent. The Company may from time to time pay, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by but without penalty or premium, all outstanding Eurodollar Advances or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000, any portion of any outstanding Eurodollar Advance upon three Business Days' prior notice to the Agent; that if after giving effect to any such prepayment the principal amount of any Eurodollar Advance is less than $10,000,000, such Eurodollar Advance shall automatically convert into a Floating Rate Advance.
Optional Principal Payments
Section 4.4
provided
2.8 . The Company shall select the Type of Advance and, in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto from time to time. The Company shall give the Agent irrevocable notice (a "") not later than 12:00 noon (New York time) on the Borrowing Date of each Floating Rate Advance and not later than 12:00 noon (New York time) three Business Days before the Borrowing Date for each Eurodollar Advance, specifying:
Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for New Advances
Borrowing Notice
(i) the Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day;
(ii) the aggregate amount of such Advance;
(iii) the Type of Advance selected; and
(iv) in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the initial Interest Period applicable thereto.
Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent will notify each Bank of the contents of each Borrowing Notice. Not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on each Borrowing Date, each Bank shall make available its Loan in funds immediately available in New York to the Agent at its address specified pursuant to . To the extent funds are received from the Banks, the Agent will make such funds available to the Company at the Agent's aforesaid address. No Bank's obligation to make any Loan shall be affected by any other Bank's failure to make any Loan.
Section 14
2.9 . Floating Rate Advances shall continue as Floating Rate Advances unless and until such Floating Rate Advances are converted into Eurodollar Advances pursuant to this or are repaid in accordance with or . Each Eurodollar Advance shall continue as a Eurodollar Advance until the end of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, at which time such Eurodollar Advance shall be automatically converted into a Floating Rate Advance unless (x) such Eurodollar Advance is or was repaid in accordance with or or (y) the Company shall have given the Agent a Conversion/Continuation Notice (as defined below) requesting that, at the end of such Interest Period, such Eurodollar Advance continue as a Eurodollar Advance for the same or another Interest Period. Subject to the terms of , the Company may elect from time to time to convert all or any part of a Floating Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance. The Company shall give the Agent irrevocable notice (a "") of each conversion of a Floating Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance or continuation of a Eurodollar Advance not later than 12:00 noon (New York time) at least three Business Days prior to the date of the requested conversion or continuation, specifying:
Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Advances
Section 2.9
Section 2.2
2.7
Section 2.2
2.7
Section 2.6
Conversion/Continuation Notice
(i) the requested date, which shall be a Business Day, of such conversion or continuation;
(ii) the aggregate amount and Type of the Advance which is to be converted or continued; and
(iii) the amount of the Advance which is to be converted into or continued as a Eurodollar Advance and the duration of the Interest Period applicable thereto;
that no Advance may be continued as, or converted into, a Eurodollar Advance if (x) such continuation or conversion would violate any provision of this Agreement or (y) a Default or Event of Default exists.
provided
2.10 . (a) Subject to , each Advance shall bear interest as follows:
Interest Rates, Interest Payment Dates
Section 2.11
(i) at any time such Advance is a Floating Rate Advance, at a rate per annum equal to the Floating Rate from time to time in effect; and
(ii) at any time such Advance is a Eurodollar Advance, at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for each applicable Interest Period.
Changes in the rate of interest on that portion or any Advance maintained as a Floating Rate Advance will take effect simultaneously with each change in the Floating Rate.
(b) Interest accrued on each Floating Rate Advance shall be payable on each Payment Date and on the Termination Date. Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance shall be payable on the last day of its applicable Interest Period, on any date on which such Eurodollar Advance is prepaid and on the Termination Date. Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance having an Interest Period longer than three months shall also be payable on the last day of each three-month interval during such Interest Period. Interest on Eurodollar Advances, interest on Floating Rate Advances based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the LC Fee shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360-day year. Interest on Floating Rate Advances based on the Prime Rate shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365- or 366-day year, as appropriate. Interest on each Advance shall accrue from and including the date such Advance is made to but excluding the date payment thereof is received in accordance with . If any payment of principal of or interest on an Advance shall become due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day (unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Advance, such next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, in which case such payment shall be due on the immediately preceding Business Day) and, in the case of a principal payment, such extension of time shall be included in computing interest in connection with such payment.
Section 2.12
2.11 . Any Advance not paid by the Company at maturity, whether by acceleration or otherwise, shall bear interest until paid in full at a rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) the rate otherwise applicable thereto plus 1% or (ii) the Floating Rate plus 1%.
Rate after Maturity
2.12 . All payments of principal, interest and fees hereunder shall be made in immediately available funds to the Agent at its address specified on its signature page to this Agreement (or at any other Lending Installation of the Agent specified in writing by the Agent to the Company) not later than 1:00 p.m. (New York time) on the date when due and shall (except in the case of Reimbursement Obligations for which the applicable LC Issuer has not been fully indemnified by the Banks, or as otherwise specifically required hereunder) be applied ratably by the Agent among the Banks. Funds received after such time shall be deemed received on the following Business Day unless the Agent shall have received from, or on behalf of, the Company a Federal Reserve reference number with respect to such payment before 4:00 p.m. (New York time) on the date of such payment. Each payment delivered to the Agent for the account of any Bank shall be delivered promptly by the Agent in the same type of funds received by the Agent to such Bank at the address specified for such Bank in its Administrative Questionnaire or at any Lending Installation specified in a notice received by the Agent from such Bank. The Agent is hereby authorized to charge the account of the Company maintained with JPMorgan, if any, for each payment of principal, interest, Reimbursement Obligations and fees as such payment becomes due hereunder. Each reference to the Agent in this shall also be deemed to refer, and shall apply equally, to each LC Issuer, in the case of payments required to be made by the Company to such LC Issuer pursuant to .
Method of Payment
Section 2.12
Section 3.6
2.13 .
Bonds; Record-keeping; Telephonic Notices
(a) The obligation of the Company to repay the Obligations shall be evidenced by one or more Bonds or, at the request of any Bank following the FMB Release Date, a promissory note in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company, the Agent and such Bank.
(b) Each Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Company to such Bank resulting from each Loan made by such Bank from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Agent shall also maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and, if applicable, the Interest Period with respect thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Company to each Bank hereunder, (iii) the original stated amount of each Facility LC and the amount of LC Obligations outstanding at any time, and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent hereunder from the Company and each Bank's share thereof.
(d) The entries maintained in the accounts maintained pursuant to and above shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the Obligations therein recorded; that the failure of the Agent or any Bank to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Company to repay the Obligations in accordance with their terms.
clauses (b)
(c)
provided
(e) The Company hereby authorizes the Banks and the Agent to make Advances based on telephonic notices made by any person or persons the Agent or any Bank in good faith believes to be acting on behalf of the Company. The Company agrees to deliver promptly to the Agent a written confirmation of each telephonic notice signed by a Designated Officer. If the written confirmation differs in any material respect from the action taken by the Agent and the Banks, the records of the Agent and the Banks shall govern absent manifest error.
2.14 . Subject to the provisions of , each Bank may book its Loans and its participation in any LC Obligations and each LC Issuer may book the Facility LCs issued by it at any Lending Installation selected by such Bank or such LC Issuer, as the case may be, and may change its Lending Installation from time to time. All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Lending Installation and the Loans shall be deemed held by the applicable Bank for the benefit of such Lending Installation. Each Bank may, by written or facsimile notice to the Company, designate a Lending Installation through which Loans will be made by it or Facility LCs will be issued by it and for whose account payments on the Loans or payments with respect to Facility LCs are to be made.
Lending Installations
Section 4.6
2.15 . Unless a Bank or the Company, as the case may be, notifies the Agent prior to the date on which it is scheduled to make payment to the Agent of (i) in the case of a Bank, the proceeds of a Loan or (ii) in the case of the Company, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the Agent for the account of the Banks, that it does not intend to make such payment, the Agent may assume that such payment has been made. The Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment available to the intended recipient in reliance upon such assumption. If such Bank or the Company, as the case may be, has not in fact made such payment to the Agent, the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Agent, repay to the Agent the amount so made available together with interest thereon in respect of each day during the period commencing on the date such amount was so made available by the Agent until the date the Agent recovers such amount at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of payment by a Bank, the Federal Funds Rate for such day or (ii) in the case of payment by the Company, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan.
Non-Receipt of Funds by the Agent
3.1 . Each LC Issuer hereby agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to issue standby and commercial letters of credit denominated in U.S. dollars (each, a "") and to renew, extend, increase, decrease or otherwise modify each Facility LC ("," and each such action a ""), from time to time from and including the date hereof and prior to the Termination Date upon the request of the Company; provided that immediately after each such Facility LC is issued or Modified, the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure shall not exceed the Available Commitment. No Facility LC shall (x) be issued later than 30 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date, (y) have an expiry date later than the fifth Business Day (or, in the case of a commercial Facility LC, the 30day) prior to the scheduled Termination Date or (z) provide for time drafts.
Issuance
Facility LC
Modify
Modification
th
3.2 . Upon the issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of a Facility LC in accordance with this (or, in the case of any Existing Facility LC, on the Initial Borrowing Date), such LC Issuer shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably sold to each Bank, and each Bank shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably purchased from such LC Issuer, a participation in such Facility LC (and each Modification thereof) and the related LC Obligations in proportion to its Pro Rata Share.
Participations
Article III
3.3 . Subject to , the Company shall give the applicable LC Issuer notice prior to 12:00 noon (New York time) at least three Business Days prior to the proposed date of issuance (other than an Existing Facility LC) or Modification of each Facility LC, specifying the beneficiary, the proposed date of issuance (or Modification) and the expiry date of such Facility LC, and describing the proposed terms of such Facility LC and the nature of the transactions proposed to be supported thereby. Upon receipt of such notice, the applicable LC Issuer shall promptly notify the Agent, and the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank, of the contents thereof and of the amount of such Bank's participation in such proposed Facility LC. The issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of any Facility LC shall, in addition to the conditions precedent set forth in (the satisfaction of which such LC Issuer shall have no duty to ascertain), be subject to the conditions precedent that such Facility LC shall be satisfactory to such LC Issuer and that the Company shall have executed and delivered such application agreement and/or such other instruments and agreements relating to such Facility LC as such LC Issuer shall have reasonably requested (each, a ""). In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any Facility LC Application, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
Notice
Section 3.1
Article XI
Facility LC Application
3.4 . The Company shall pay to the Agent, for the account of the Banks ratably in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares, a letter of credit fee (the "") at a per annum rate equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Loans in effect from time to time on the daily undrawn stated amount of each Facility LC, such fee to be payable in arrears on each Payment Date and the Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The Company shall also pay to each LC Issuer for its own account (a) a fronting fee for each Facility LC at the time and in the amount (i) in the case of JPMorgan, set forth in the Fee Letter, and (ii) in the case of any other LC Issuer, separately agreed by the Company and such LC Issuer, and (b) documentary and processing charges in connection with the issuance or Modification of and draws under Facility LCs in accordance with such LC Issuer's standard schedule for such charges as in effect from time to time.
LC Fees
LC Fee
3.5 . Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Facility LC of any demand for payment under such Facility LC, the applicable LC Issuer shall notify the Agent and the Agent shall promptly notify the Company and each other Bank as to the amount to be paid by such LC Issuer as a result of such demand and the proposed payment date (the ""). The responsibility of an LC Issuer to the Company and each Bank shall be only to determine that the documents (including each demand for payment) delivered under each Facility LC issued by such LC Issuer in connection with such presentment shall be in conformity in all material respects with such Facility LC. Each LC Issuer shall endeavor to exercise the same care in the issuance and administration of Facility LCs as it does with respect to letters of credit in which no participations are granted, it being understood that in the absence of any gross negligence or willful misconduct by such LC Issuer, each Bank shall be unconditionally and irrevocably liable without regard to the occurrence of any Default or any condition precedent whatsoever, to reimburse such LC Issuer on demand for (i) such Bank's Pro Rata Share of the amount of each payment made by such LC Issuer under each Facility LC issued by it to the extent such amount is not reimbursed by the Company pursuant to below, plus (ii) interest on the foregoing amount to be reimbursed by such Bank, for each day from the date of such LC Issuer's demand for such Reimbursement (or, if such demand is made after 12:00 noon (New York time) on such date, from the next succeeding Business Day) to the date on which such Bank pays the amount to be reimbursed by it, at a rate of interest per annum equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate for the first three days and, thereafter, at a rate of interest equal to the rate applicable to Floating Rate Advances.
Administration; Reimbursement by Banks
LC Payment Date
Section 3.6
3.6 . The Company shall be irrevocably and unconditionally obligated to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer on the applicable LC Payment Date for any amounts to be paid by such LC Issuer upon any drawing under any Facility LC issued by it, without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind; provided that neither the Company nor any Bank shall hereby be precluded from asserting any claim for direct (but not consequential) damages suffered by the Company or such Bank to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (i) the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC issued by it complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (ii) such LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC issued by it after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. All such amounts paid by the applicable LC Issuer and remaining unpaid by the Company shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to (x) the rate applicable to Floating Rate Advances for such day if such day falls on or before the applicable LC Payment Date and (y) the sum of 1% plus the rate applicable to Floating Rate Advances for such day if such day falls after such LC Payment Date. The applicable LC Issuer will pay to each Bank ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share all amounts received by such LC Issuer from the Company for application in payment, in whole or in part, of the Reimbursement Obligation in respect of any Facility LC issued by such LC Issuer, but only to the extent such Bank has made payment to such LC Issuer in respect of such Facility LC pursuant to . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement (including the submission of a Borrowing Notice in compliance with and the satisfaction of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in ), the Company may request an Advance hereunder for the purpose of satisfying any Reimbursement Obligation.
Reimbursement by Company
Section 3.5
Section 2.8
Article XI
3.7 . The Company's obligations under this shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Company may have or have had against any LC Issuer, any Bank or any beneficiary of a Facility LC. The Company further agrees with the LC Issuers and the Banks that the LC Issuers and the Banks shall not be responsible for, and the Company's Reimbursement Obligation in respect of any Facility LC shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Company, any of its affiliates, the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any financing institution or other party to whom any Facility LC may be transferred or any claims or defenses whatsoever of the Company or of any of its affiliates against the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any such transferee. No LC Issuer shall be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Facility LC. The Company agrees that any action taken or omitted by any LC Issuer or any Bank under or in connection with a Facility LC and the related drafts and documents, if done without gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall be binding upon the Company and shall not put any LC Issuer or any Bank under any liability to the Company. Nothing in this is intended to limit the right of the Company to make a claim against any LC Issuer for damages as contemplated by the proviso to the first sentence of .
Obligations Absolute
Article III
Section 3.7
Section 3.6
3.8 . Each LC Issuer shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Facility LC, draft, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel, independent accountants and other experts selected by such LC Issuer. Each LC Issuer shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement unless it shall first have received such advice or concurrence of the Majority Banks as it reasonably deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its reasonable satisfaction by the Banks against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. Notwithstanding any other provision of this , each LC Issuer shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement in accordance with a request of the Majority Banks, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon the Banks and any future holders of a participation in any Facility LC.
Actions of LC Issuers
Article III
3.9 . The Company hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Bank, each LC Issuer and the Agent, and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims and damages, losses, liabilities, reasonable costs or expenses which such Bank, such LC Issuer or the Agent may incur (or which may be claimed against such Bank, such LC Issuer or the Agent by any Person whatsoever) by reason of or in connection with the issuance, execution and delivery or transfer of or payment or failure to pay under any Facility LC or any actual or proposed use of any Facility LC, including any claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses which any LC Issuer may incur by reason of or in connection with (i) the failure of any other Bank to fulfill or comply with its obligations to such LC Issuer hereunder (but nothing herein contained shall affect any rights the Company may have against any defaulting Bank) or (ii) by reason of or on account of such LC Issuer issuing any Facility LC which specifies that the term "Beneficiary" included therein includes any successor by operation of law of the named Beneficiary, but which Facility LC does not require that any drawing by any such successor Beneficiary be accompanied by a copy of a legal document, satisfactory to such LC Issuer, evidencing the appointment of such successor Beneficiary; that the Company shall not be required to indemnify any Bank, any LC Issuer or the Agent for any claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (x) the willful misconduct or gross negligence of any LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC issued by it complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (y) any LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC issued by it after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. Nothing in this is intended to limit the obligations of the Company under any other provision of this Agreement.
Indemnification
provided
Section 3.9
3.10 . Each Bank shall, ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, indemnify each LC Issuer, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (to the extent not reimbursed by the Company) against any cost, expense (including reasonable counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitees' gross negligence or willful misconduct or such LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC issued by it after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Facility LC) that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with this Article III or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitees hereunder.
Banks' Indemnification
3.11 . In its capacity as a Bank, each LC Issuer shall have the same rights and obligations as any other Bank.
Rights as a Bank
4.1 .
Yield Protection
(a) If any change in law or any governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any interpretation thereof by any agency or authority having jurisdiction over any Bank or any LC Issuer,
(i) subjects any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation to any increased tax, duty, charge or withholding on or from payments due from the Company (excluding taxation measured by or attributable to the overall net income of such Bank, such LC Issuer or such applicable Lending Installation, whether overall or in any geographic area), or changes the rate of taxation of payments to any Bank or any LC Issuer in respect of its Credit Extensions (including any participations in Facility LCs) or other amounts due it hereunder, or
(ii) imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation (including any reserve costs under Regulation D with respect to Eurocurrency liabilities (as defined in Regulation D)), or
(iii) imposes any other condition the result of which is to increase the cost to any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation of making, funding or maintaining Credit Extensions (including any participations in Facility LCs), or reduces any amount receivable by any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with Credit Extensions (including any participations in Facility LCs) or requires any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to its Outstanding Credit Exposure or interest received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Bank or such LC Issuer, or
(iv) affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Bank, any LC Issuer or any applicable Lending Installation or any corporation controlling any Bank or any LC Issuer and such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, determines the amount of capital required is increased by or based upon the existence of this Agreement or its obligation to make Credit Extensions (including any participations in Facility LCs) hereunder or of commitments of this type,
then, upon presentation by such Bank or such LC Issuer to the Company of a certificate (as referred to in the immediately succeeding sentence of this ) setting forth the basis for such determination and the additional amounts reasonably determined by such Bank or such LC Issuer for the period of up to 90 days prior to the date on which such certificate is delivered to the Company and the Agent, to be sufficient to compensate such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, in light of such circumstances, the Company shall within 30 days of such delivery of such certificate pay to the Agent for the account of such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, the specified amounts set forth on such certificate. The affected Bank or LC Issuer, as applicable, shall deliver to the Company and the Agent a certificate setting forth the basis of the claim and specifying in reasonable detail the calculation of such increased expense, which certificate shall be prima facie evidence as to such increase and such amounts. An affected Bank or LC Issuer, as applicable, may deliver more than one certificate to the Company during the term of this Agreement. In making the determinations contemplated by the above-referenced certificate, any Bank and any LC Issuer may make such reasonable estimates, assumptions, allocations and the like that such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, in good faith determines to be appropriate, and such Bank's or such LC Issuer's selection thereof in accordance with this shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, absent manifest error.
Section 4.1
Section 4.1
(b) No LC Issuer or Bank shall be entitled to demand compensation or be compensated hereunder to the extent that such compensation relates to any period of time more than 90 days prior to the date upon which such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, first notified the Company of the occurrence of the event entitling such Bank or such LC Issuer, as applicable, to such compensation (unless, and to the extent, that any such compensation so demanded shall relate to the retroactive application of any event so notified to the Company).
4.2 .
Replacement Bank
(a) If any Bank shall make a demand for payment under , then within 30 days after such demand, the Company may, with the approval of the Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) and provided that no Default or Event of Default shall then have occurred and be continuing, demand that such Bank assign to one or more financial institutions designated by the Company and approved by the Agent all (but not less than all) of such Bank's Commitment and Outstanding Credit Exposure within the period ending on the later of such 30th day and the last day of the longest of the then current Interest Periods or maturity dates for such Outstanding Credit Exposure. Any such assignment shall be consummated on terms satisfactory to the assigning Bank; that such Bank's consent to such assignment shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 4.1
provided
(b) If the Company shall elect to replace a Bank pursuant to above, the Company shall prepay the Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Bank, and the financial institution or institutions selected by the Company shall replace such Bank as a Bank hereunder pursuant to an instrument satisfactory to the Company, the Agent and the Bank being replaced by making Credit Extensions to the Company in the amount of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of such assigning Bank and assuming all the same rights and responsibilities hereunder as such assigning Bank and having the same Commitment as such assigning Bank.
clause (a)
4.3 . If
Availability of Eurodollar Rate Loans
(a) any Bank determines that maintenance of a Eurodollar Rate Loan at a suitable Lending Installation would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation or directive, whether or not having the force of law, or
(b) the Majority Banks determine that (i) deposits of a type and maturity appropriate to match fund Eurodollar Rate Loans are not available or (ii) the Base Eurodollar Rate does not accurately reflect the cost of making or maintaining a Eurodollar Rate Loan,
then the Agent shall suspend the availability of Eurodollar Rate Loans and, in the case of , require any outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans to be converted to Floating Rate Loans on such date as is required by the applicable law, rule, regulation or directive.
clause (a)
4.4 . If any payment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan occurs on a date which is not the last day of an applicable Interest Period, whether because of prepayment or otherwise, or a Eurodollar Rate Loan is not made on the date specified by the Company for any reason other than default by the Banks, the Company will indemnify each Bank for any loss or cost (but not lost profits) incurred by it resulting therefrom, including any loss or cost in liquidating or employing deposits acquired to fund or maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loan; that the Company shall not be liable for any of the foregoing to the extent they arise because of acceleration by any Bank.
Funding Indemnification
provided
4.5
.
Taxes
(a) All payments by the Company to or for the account of any Bank, any LC Issuer or the Agent hereunder or under any Bond or Facility LC Application shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all Taxes. If the Company shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Bank, any LC Issuer or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ) such Bank, such LC Issuer or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Company shall make such deductions, (iii) the Company shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) the Company shall furnish to the Agent the original copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof within 30 days after such payment is made.
Section 4.5
(b) In addition, the Company hereby agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or under any Bond or Facility LC Application or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Bond or Facility LC Application ("").
Other Taxes
(c) The Company hereby agrees to indemnify the Agent, each LC Issuer and each Bank for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on amounts payable under this ) paid by the Agent, such LC Issuer or such Bank and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. Payments due under this indemnification shall be made within 30 days of the date the Agent, such LC Issuer or such Bank makes demand therefor pursuant to .
Section 4.5
Section 4.6
(d) Each Bank that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (each a "") agrees that it will, not more than ten Business Days after the date hereof, or, if later, not more than ten Business Days after becoming a Bank hereunder, (i) deliver to each of the Company and the Agent two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, certifying in either case that such Bank is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, and (ii) deliver to each of the Company and the Agent a United States Internal Revenue Form W-8 or W-9, as the case may be, and certify that it is entitled to an exemption from United States backup withholding tax. Each Non-U.S. Bank further undertakes to deliver to each of the Company and the Agent (x) renewals or additional copies of such form (or any successor form) on or before the date that such form expires or becomes obsolete, and (y) after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent forms so delivered by it, such additional forms or amendments thereto as may be reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent. All forms or amendments described in the preceding sentence shall certify that such Bank is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless an event (including any change in treaty, law or regulation) has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Bank from duly completing and delivering any such form or amendment with respect to it and such Bank advises the Company and the Agent that it is not capable of receiving payments without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax.
Non-U.S. Bank
(e) For any period during which a Non-U.S. Bank has failed to provide the Company with an appropriate form pursuant to , above (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided), such Non-U.S. Bank shall not be entitled to indemnification under this with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States; that, should a Non-U.S. Bank which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required under above, the Company shall take such steps as such Non-U.S. Bank shall reasonably request to assist such Non-U.S. Bank to recover such Taxes.
clause (d)
Section 4.5
provided
clause (d)
(f) Any Bank that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement or any Bond pursuant to the law of any relevant jurisdiction or any treaty shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
(g) If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental authority of the United States or any other country or any political subdivision thereof asserts a claim that the Agent did not properly withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Bank (because the appropriate form was not delivered or properly completed, because such Bank failed to notify the Agent of a change in circumstances which rendered its exemption from withholding ineffective, or for any other reason), such Bank shall indemnify the Agent fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by the Agent as tax, withholding therefor, or otherwise, including penalties and interest, and including taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable to the Agent under this , together with all costs and expenses related thereto (including attorneys fees and time charges of attorneys for the Agent, which attorneys may be employees of the Agent). The obligations of the Banks under this shall survive the payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
clause (g)
clause (g)
4.6 . To the extent reasonably possible, each Bank shall designate an alternate Lending Installation with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans to reduce any liability of the Company to such Bank under or to avoid the unavailability of Eurodollar Rate Loan under , so long as such designation is not disadvantageous to such Bank. A certificate of such Bank as to the amount due under , or shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company in the absence of manifest error. Determination of amounts payable under such Sections in connection with a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be calculated as though each Bank funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan through the purchase of a deposit of the type and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the Base Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Loan whether in fact that is the case or not. Unless otherwise provided herein, the amount specified in any certificate shall be payable on demand after receipt by the Company of such certificate. The obligations of the Company under , and shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement; that no Bank shall be entitled to compensation to the extent that such compensation relates to any period of time more than 90 days after the termination of this Agreement.
Bank Certificates, Survival of Indemnity
Section 4.1
Section 4.3
Section 4.1
4.4
4.5
Sections 4.1
4.4
4.5
provided
The Company hereby represents and warrants that:
5.1 . The Company is duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Michigan.
Incorporation and Good Standing
5.2 . The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Credit Documents are within the Company's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not (i) violate the Company's charter, bylaws or any applicable law, or (ii) breach or result in an event of default under any indenture or material agreement, and do not result in or require the creation of any Lien upon or with respect to any of its properties (except the Lien of the Indenture securing the Bonds and any Lien in favor of the Agent on the Facility LC Collateral Account or any funds therein).
Corporate Power and Authority: No Conflicts
5.3 . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Company of any Credit Document, except for the authorization to issue, sell or guarantee secured and/or unsecured short-term debt granted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which authorization has been obtained and is in full force and effect.
Governmental Approvals
5.4 . Each Credit Document constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to (a) the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (b) the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Legally Enforceable Agreements
5.5 . The audited balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2006, and the related statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, as set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K (copies of which have been furnished to each Bank) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at such date and the results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such date, all in accordance with GAAP, and since December 31, 2006, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
Financial Statements
5.6 . Except (i) to the extent described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 as filed with the SEC, and (ii) such other similar actions, suits and proceedings predicated on the occurrence of the same events giving rise to any actions, suits and proceedings described in the Reports referred to in the foregoing (all matters described in and above, the ""), there is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation or proceeding against the Company or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator, which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. As of the Initial Borrowing Date, (a) there is no litigation challenging the validity or the enforceability of any of the Credit Documents and (b) there have been no adverse developments with respect to the Disclosed Matters that have resulted, or could reasonably be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Change.
Litigation
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
Disclosed Matters
5.7 . The Company is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of buying or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U), and no proceeds of any Credit Extension will be used to buy or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock.
Margin Stock
5.8 . No Plan Termination Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan. Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate is an employer under or has any liability with respect to a Multiemployer Plan.
ERISA
5.9 . All insurance required by is in full force and effect.
Insurance
Section 6.2
5.10 . The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all tax returns (Federal, state and local) required to be filed and paid all taxes shown thereon to be due, including interest and penalties, or, to the extent the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is contesting in good faith an assertion of liability based on such returns, has provided adequate reserves for payment thereof in accordance with GAAP.
Taxes
5.11 . The Company is not an investment company (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended).
Investment Company Act
5.12 . The issuance to the Agent of Bonds as evidence of the Obligations (i) will not violate any provision of the Indenture or any other agreement or instrument, or any law or regulation, or judicial or regulatory order, judgment or decree, to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of the foregoing is bound and (ii) will, prior to the FMB Release Date, provide the Banks, as beneficial holders of the Bonds through the Agent, the benefit of the Lien of the Indenture equally and ratably with the holders of other First Mortgage Bonds.
Bonds
5.13 . The Company has not withheld any fact from the Agent or the Banks in regard to the occurrence of a Material Adverse Change; and all financial information delivered by the Company to the Agent and the Banks on and after the date of this Agreement is true and correct in all material respects as at the dates and for the periods indicated therein.
Disclosure
5.14 . Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company is named on the United States Department of the Treasury's Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons list available through http://www.treas.gov/offices/eotffc/ofac/sdn/t11sdn.pdf or as otherwise published from time.
OFAC
So long as any Obligations shall remain unpaid, any Facility LC shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment under this Agreement, the Company shall:
6.1 . Pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (a) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property, and (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim (i) which is being contested by it in good faith and by proper procedures or (ii) the non-payment of which will not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
6.2 . Maintain insurance in such amounts and covering such risks with respect to its business and properties as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties, either with reputable insurance companies or, in whole or in part, by establishing reserves or one or more insurance funds, either alone or with other corporations or associations.
Maintenance of Insurance
6.3 . Preserve and maintain its corporate existence, rights and franchises, and qualify and remain qualified as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary in view of its business and operations or the ownership of its properties; that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise or to remain so qualified unless the failure to do so would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
6.4 . Comply with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any governmental authority, the non-compliance with which would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
6.5 . Subject to any necessary approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, at any reasonable time and from time to time, permit the Agent, any of the Banks or any agents or representatives thereof to examine and make copies of and abstracts from its records and books of account, visit its properties and discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with any of its officers.
Visitation Rights
6.6 . Keep, and cause each Consolidated Subsidiary to keep, adequate records and books of account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all of its financial transactions and its assets and business so as to permit the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries to present financial statements in accordance with GAAP.
Keeping of Books
6.7 . Furnish to the Agent, with sufficient copies for each of the Banks:
Reporting Requirements
(a) as soon as practicable and in any event within five Business Days after becoming aware of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, a statement of a Designated Officer as to the nature thereof, and as soon as practicable and in any event within five Business Days thereafter, a statement of a Designated Officer as to the action which the Company has taken, is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
(b) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and common stockholder's equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding figures for the corresponding date or period of the preceding fiscal year, or statements providing substantially similar information (which requirement shall be deemed satisfied by the delivery of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for such quarter), all in reasonable detail and duly certified (subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end audit adjustments) by a Designated Officer as having been prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with (i) a certificate of a Designated Officer (which certificate shall also accompany the financial statements delivered pursuant to below) stating that such officer has no knowledge (having made due inquiry with respect thereto) that a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the actions which the Company has taken, is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto, and (ii) a certificate of a Designated Officer, in substantially the form of hereto, setting forth the Company's computation of the financial ratios specified in and as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter or year, as the case may be, of the Company;
clause (c)
Exhibit C
Sections 8.1
8.2
(c) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a copy of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K (or any successor form) for such year, including therein the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the consolidated statements of income, cash flows and common stockholder's equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of and for such year, or statements providing substantially similar information, in each case certified by independent public accountants of recognized national standing selected by the Company (and not objected to by the Majority Banks), together with a certificate of such accounting firm addressed to the Banks stating that, in the course of its examination of the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, which examination was conducted by such accounting firm in accordance with GAAP, (1) such accounting firm has obtained no knowledge that an Event of Default, insofar as such Event of Default related to accounting or financial matters, has occurred and is continuing, or if, in the opinion of such accounting firm, such an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof, and (2) such accounting firm has examined a certificate prepared by the Company setting forth the computations made by the Company in determining, as of the end of such fiscal year, the ratios specified in and , which certificate shall be attached to the certificate of such accounting firm, and such accounting firm confirms that such computations accurately reflect such ratios;
Sections 8.1
8.2
(d) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all proxy statements which the Company sends to its stockholders, copies of all regular, periodic and special reports (other than those which relate solely to employee benefit plans) which the Company files with the SEC and notice of the sending or filing of (and, upon the request of the Agent or any Bank, a copy of) any final prospectus filed with the SEC;
(e) as soon as possible and in any event (i) within 30 days after the Company or any ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know that any Plan Termination Event described in of the definition of Plan Termination Event with respect to any Plan has occurred and (ii) within ten days after the Company or any ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know that any other Plan Termination Event with respect to any Plan has occurred, a statement of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company describing such Plan Termination Event and the action, if any, which the Company or such ERISA Affiliate, as the case may be, proposes to take with respect thereto;
clause (a)
(f) promptly upon becoming aware thereof, notice of any upgrading or downgrading of the rating of the Senior Debt by Moody's or S&P;
(g) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of any default under any agreement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, which default would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, and which is continuing on the date of such certificate, a certificate of the president or chief financial officer of the Company setting forth the details of such default and the action which the Company or any such Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto; and
(h) promptly, such other information respecting the business, properties or financial condition of the Company as the Agent or any Bank through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
6.8 . The Company will use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for general corporate purposes, working capital and refinancing the Debt under the Prior Agreement. The Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, use any of the proceeds of the Credit Extensions to purchase or carry any "margin stock" (as defined in Regulation U).
Use of Proceeds
6.9 . The Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain in all material respects all of its respective owned and leased Property in good and safe condition and repair to the same degree as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties, and not permit, commit or suffer any waste or abandonment of any such Property, and from time to time make or cause to be made all material repairs, renewals and replacements thereof, including any capital improvements which may be required; that such Property may be altered or renovated in the ordinary course of the Company's or its Subsidiaries' business; and , , that the foregoing shall not restrict the sale of any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary to the extent not prohibited by .
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
provided
provided
further
Section 7.2
6.10 . Beginning on the Initial Borrowing Date and continuing until the earlier of (i) the FMB Release Date and (ii) the date on which the Commitments and Facility LCs have terminated and all Obligations have been paid in full, cause the face amount of all Bonds to at all times be equal to or greater than the greater of (a) the Aggregate Commitment and (b) the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.
Bonds
So long as any Obligations shall remain unpaid, any Facility LC shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment under this Agreement, the Company shall not:
7.1 . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any of its properties, now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
Liens
(a) Liens created pursuant to the Indenture securing the First Mortgage Bonds and any Lien in favor of the Agent on the Facility LC Collateral Account or any funds therein;
(b) Liens securing pollution control bonds, or bonds issued to refund or refinance pollution control bonds (including Liens securing obligations (contingent or otherwise) of the Company under letter of credit agreements or other reimbursement or similar credit enhancement agreements with respect to pollution control bonds); that the aggregate face amount of any such bonds so issued shall not exceed the aggregate face amount of such pollution control bonds, as the case may be, so refunded or refinanced;
provided
(c) Liens in (and only in) assets acquired to secure Debt incurred to finance the acquisition of such assets;
(d) Statutory and common law banker's Liens on bank deposits;
(e) Liens in respect of accounts receivable sold, transferred or assigned by the Company;
(f) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies not at the time delinquent or thereafter payable without penalty or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been set aside on its books;
(g) Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and landlords incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums not overdue or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves shall have been set aside on its books;
(h) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance or other forms of governmental insurance or benefits, or to secure performance of tenders, statutory obligations, leases and contracts (other than for borrowed money) entered into in the ordinary course of business or to secure obligations on surety or appeal bonds;
(i) Judgment Liens in existence less than 30 days after the entry thereof or with respect to which execution has been stayed or the payment of which is covered (subject to a customary deductible) by insurance;
(j) Zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, covenants, reservations, utility company rights, restrictions on the use of real property or minor irregularities of title incident thereto which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or assets of the Company or materially impair the operation of its business;
(k) Liens arising in connection with the financing of the Company's fuel resources, including nuclear fuel;
(l) Liens arising pursuant to M.C.L. 324.20138; that the aggregate amount of all obligations secured by such Liens (excluding any such Liens of which the Company has no knowledge or which are permitted by above) shall not exceed $20,000,000;
provided
clause (f)
(m) Liens arising in connection with Securitized Bonds;
(n) Liens on natural gas, oil and mineral, or on stock in trade, material or supplies manufactured or acquired for the purpose of sale and or resale in the usual course of business or consumable in the operation of any of the properties of the Company; that such Liens secure obligations not exceeding $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount; and
provided
(o) Other Liens securing obligations in an aggregate amount not in excess of $500,000,000.
7.2 . Sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of 25% or more of its assets calculated with reference to total assets as reflected on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2006, during the term of this Agreement.
Sale of Assets
7.3 . Merge with or into or consolidate with or into any other Person, except that the Company may merge with any other Person; that, in each case, immediately after giving effect thereto, (a) no event shall occur and be continuing which constitutes a Default or Event of Default, (b) the Company is the surviving corporation, (c) the Company shall not be liable with respect to any Debt or allow its Property to be subject to any Lien which it could not become liable with respect to or allow its Property to become subject to under this Agreement on the date of such transaction and (d) the Company's Net Worth shall be equal to or greater than its Net Worth immediately prior to such merger.
Mergers, Etc
provided
7.4 . Permit to exist any occurrence of any Reportable Event, or any other event or condition which presents a material (in the reasonable opinion of the Majority Banks) risk of a termination by the PBGC of any Plan, which termination will result in any material (in the reasonable opinion of the Majority Banks) liability of the Company or such ERISA Affiliate to the PBGC.
Compliance with ERISA
7.5 . Make any material change in the nature of its business as carried on as of the date hereof.
Change in Nature of Business
7.6 . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities (exclusive of obligations arising in connection with the Purchase Agreement among the Company, Consumers Receivables Funding II, LLC, Falcon Asset Securitization Corporation and JPMorgan, dated as of May 22, 2003, as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time and any similar agreement entered into in replacement thereof) in the aggregate in excess of $250,000,000 at any time.
Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities
7.7 . Enter into, or permit any Subsidiary to enter into, any transaction with any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Subsidiary) unless such transaction is on terms no less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than if the transaction had been negotiated in good faith on an arm's-length basis with a non-Affiliate; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the payment by the Company or any Subsidiary of dividends or other distributions on, or redemptions of, its capital stock, (b) the purchase, acquisition or retirement by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company's capital stock or (c) intercompany loans and advances not otherwise prohibited by this Agreement.
Transactions with Affiliates
So long as any of the Obligations shall remain unpaid, any Facility LC shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment under this Agreement, the Company shall at all times maintain a ratio of Total Consolidated Debt to Total Consolidated Capitalization of not greater than 0.70 to 1.0.
9.1 . The occurrence of any of the following events shall constitute an "":
Events of Default
Event of Default
(a) The Company shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Advance when due and payable, or (ii) any Reimbursement Obligation within one day after the same becomes due, or (iii) any interest on any Advance or any fee or other Obligation payable hereunder within five days after such interest or fee or other Obligation becomes due and payable;
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Company (or any of its officers) in this Agreement or any other Credit Document or in any certificate, document, report, financial or other written statement furnished at any time pursuant to any Credit Document shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made;
(c) The Company shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or ; or the Company shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed in this Agreement or in any other Credit Document and such failure shall continue for 30 consecutive days after the earlier of (i) a Designated Officer obtaining knowledge of such breach and (ii) written notice thereof by means of facsimile, regular mail or written notice delivered in person (or telephonic notice thereof confirmed in writing) having been given to the Company by the Agent or the Majority Banks;
Section 6.10
Article VII
Article VIII
(d) The Company shall: (i) fail to pay any Debt (other than the payment obligations described in above) in excess of $50,000,000, or any interest or premium thereon, when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise) and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the instrument or agreement relating to such Debt; or (ii) fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or condition on its part to be performed or observed under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt, when required to be performed or observed, if the effect of such failure to perform or observe is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt, unless the obligee under or holder of such Debt shall have waived in writing such circumstance, or such circumstance has been cured, so that such circumstance is no longer continuing; or (iii) any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreement or instrument, prior to the stated maturity thereof; or (iv) generally not, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as such debts become due;
clause (a)
(e) The Company: (i) shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or petition or apply to any tribunal for the appointment of a custodian, receiver or trustee for it or a substantial part of its assets; or (ii) shall commence any proceeding under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, readjustment of debt, dissolution or liquidation law or statute of any jurisdiction, whether now or hereafter in effect; or (iii) shall have had any such petition or application filed or any such proceeding shall have been commenced, against it, in which an adjudication or appointment is made or order for relief is entered, or which petition, application or proceeding remains undismissed for a period of 30 consecutive days or more; or (iv) by any act or omission shall indicate its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such petition, application or proceeding or order for relief or the appointment of a custodian, receiver or trustee for all or any substantial part of its property; or (v) shall suffer any such custodianship, receivership or trusteeship to continue undischarged for a period of 30 days or more; or (vi) shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this ;
clause (e)
(f) One or more judgments, decrees or orders for the payment of money in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Company and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon any such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of more than 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect;
(g) Any Plan Termination Event with respect to a Plan shall have occurred, and 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Company by the Agent, (i) such Plan Termination Event (if correctable) shall not have been corrected and (ii) the then present value of such Plan's vested benefits exceeds the then current value of the assets accumulated in such Plan by more than the amount of $25,000,000 (or in the case of a Plan Termination Event involving the withdrawal of a "substantial employer" (as defined in Section 4001(A)(2) of ERISA), the withdrawing employer's proportionate share of such excess shall exceed such amount).
(h) Prior to the FMB Release Date, (i) any Bond shall cease to be in full force and effect (except for Bonds surrendered by the Agent pursuant to ; or (ii) the Company shall deny that it has any liability or obligation under any Bond or purport to revoke, terminate, rescind or redeem any Bond (other than in accordance with the terms of the Bonds and the Indenture).
Section 2.5(b)
9.2 .
Remedies
(a) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the Agent shall upon the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Banks, by notice to the Company, (i) declare the Commitments and the obligations and powers of the LC Issuers to issue Facility LCs to be terminated or suspended, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and/or (ii) declare the Obligations to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure and all other Obligations shall become and be forthwith due and payable, and/or (iii) in addition to the continuing right to demand payment of all amounts payable under this Agreement, make demand on the Company to pay, and the Company will, forthwith upon such demand and without any further notice or act, pay to the Agent the Collateral Shortfall Amount (as defined below), which funds shall be deposited in the Facility LC Collateral Account, in each case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company; that in the case of an Event of Default referred to in , the Commitments shall automatically terminate, the obligations and powers of the LC Issuers to issue Facility LCs shall automatically terminate and the Obligations shall automatically become due and payable without notice, presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, and the Company will be and become thereby unconditionally obligated, without any further notice, act or demand, to pay to the Agent an amount in immediately available funds, which funds shall be held in the Facility LC Collateral Account, equal to the difference of (x) the amount of LC Obligations at such time, less (y) the amount on deposit in the Facility LC Collateral Account at such time which is free and clear of all rights and claims of third parties and has not been applied against the Obligations (such difference, the "").
provided
Section 9.1(e)
Collateral Shortfall Amount
(b) If at any time while any Event of Default is continuing, the Agent determines that the Collateral Shortfall Amount at such time is greater than zero, the Agent may make demand on the Company to pay, and the Company will, forthwith upon such demand and without any further notice or act, pay to the Agent the Collateral Shortfall Amount, which funds shall be deposited in the Facility LC Collateral Account.
(c) The Agent may, at any time or from time to time after funds are deposited in the Facility LC Collateral Account, apply such funds to the payment of the Obligations and any other amounts as shall from time to time have become due and payable by the Company to the Banks or the LC Issuers under the Credit Documents. The Company hereby pledges, assigns and grants to the Agent, on behalf of and for the ratable benefit of the Banks and the LC Issuers, a security interest in all of the Company's right, title and interest in and to all funds which may from time to time be on deposit in the Facility LC Collateral Account to secure the prompt and complete payment and performance of the Obligations. The Agent will invest any funds on deposit from time to time in the Facility LC Collateral Account in certificates of deposit of JPMorgan having a maturity not exceeding 30 days.
(d) At any time while any Event of Default is continuing, neither the Company nor any Person claiming on behalf of or through the Company shall have any right to withdraw any of the funds held in the Facility LC Collateral Account. After all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, all Facility LCs have expired or been terminated and the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, any funds remaining in the Facility LC Collateral Account shall be returned by the Agent to the Company or paid to whomever may be legally entitled thereto at such time.
10.1 . Subject to the provisions of this , the Majority Banks (or the Agent with the consent in writing of the Majority Banks) and the Company may enter into written agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding or modifying any provisions to the Credit Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Banks or the Company hereunder or waiving any Event of Default hereunder; that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of all of the Banks:
Amendments
Article X
provided
(a) Extend the maturity of any Loan or reduce the principal amount thereof, or extend the expiry date of any Facility LC to a date after the scheduled Termination Date, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon or fees thereon or Reimbursement Obligations related thereto.
(b) Modify the percentage specified in the definition of Majority Banks.
(c) Extend the Termination Date or increase the amount of the Commitment of any Bank hereunder or the commitment to issue Facility LCs, or permit the Company to assign its rights under this Agreement.
(d) Amend , this or .
Section 6.10
Section 10.1
Section 12.11
(e) Make any change in an express right in this Agreement of a single Bank to give its consent, make a request or give a notice.
(f) Authorize the Agent to vote in favor of the release of all or substantially all of the collateral securing the Bonds.
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement relating to the Agent shall be effective without the written consent of the Agent, and no amendment of any provision relating to any LC Issuer shall be effective without the written consent of such LC Issuer.
10.2 . No delay or omission of the Banks, the LC Issuers or the Agent to exercise any right under the Credit Documents shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of any Default or Event of Default or an acquiescence therein, and the making of a Credit Extension notwithstanding the existence of a Default or Event of Default or the inability of the Company to satisfy the conditions precedent to such Credit Extension shall not constitute any waiver or acquiescence. Any single or partial exercise of any such right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, and no waiver, amendment or other variation of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Credit Documents whatsoever shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Banks required pursuant to , and then only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth. All remedies contained in the Credit Documents or by law afforded shall be cumulative and all shall be available to the Agent, the LC Issuers and the Banks until the Obligations have been paid in full.
Preservation of Rights
Section 10.1
11.1 . The Banks shall not be required to make the initial Credit Extension hereunder unless the Company has furnished to the Agent with sufficient copies for the Banks:
Initial Credit Extension
(a) Counterparts of this Agreement executed by the Company and the Banks.
(b) Copies of the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, together with all amendments, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and a certificate of good standing, certified by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of incorporation.
(c) Copies, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, of its bylaws and of its Board of Directors' resolutions (and resolutions of other bodies, if any are deemed necessary by counsel for any Bank) authorizing the execution of the Credit Documents.
(d) An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, which shall identify by name and title and bear the original or facsimile signature of the officers of the Company authorized to sign the Credit Documents and the officers or other employees authorized to make borrowings hereunder, upon which certificate the Banks shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the Company.
(e) A certificate, signed by a Designated Officer of the Company, stating that on the date hereof (i) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (ii) each representation or warranty contained in is true and correct.
Article V
(f) Evidence satisfactory to the Agent of the issuance of the Bonds in the form set forth in the Supplemental Indenture and in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000 pursuant to the Bond Delivery Agreement.
(g) Favorable opinions of: (i) James E. Brunner, Esq., General Counsel of the Company, as to the matters set forth in and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably request; and (ii) Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., as to the matters set forth in and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably request. Such opinions shall be addressed to the Agent and the Banks and shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Agent.
Exhibit B-1
Exhibit B-2
(h) Evidence satisfactory to the Agent that the Prior Agreement shall have been or shall simultaneously on the Initial Borrowing Date be terminated (except for those provisions that expressly survive the termination thereof) and all loans outstanding and other amounts owed to the lenders or agents thereunder (other than contingent obligations with respect to Existing Facility LCs) shall have been, or shall simultaneously with the initial Credit Extension hereunder be, paid in full.
(i) Evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, that the Company has obtained all governmental approvals, if any, necessary for it to enter into the Credit Documents.
(j) Such other documents as any Bank or its counsel may have reasonably requested.
It shall be a further condition precedent to the making of the initial Credit Extension hereunder that the Company shall have paid (i) to the Agent for the account of the Banks the fees required to be paid on the Initial Borrowing Date and (ii) to the Agent and each Arranger the fees required to be paid to them pursuant to the Fee Letter.
11.2 . The Banks shall not be required to make any Credit Extension if on the applicable Borrowing Date, (i) any Default or Event of Default exists, (ii) any representation or warranty contained in is not true and correct as of such Borrowing Date, (iii) prior to the FMB Release Date, after giving effect to such Credit Extension the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure would exceed the face amount of all Bonds or (iv) all legal matters incident to the making of such Credit Extension are not satisfactory to the Banks and their counsel; that, on any date following the Initial Borrowing Date on which the ratings of the Senior Debt from Moody's and S&P are Baa2 or higher and BBB or higher, respectively, the Company shall not be required to make the representation and warranty (x) regarding no Material Adverse Change set forth in or (y) set forth in the first sentence of . Each Borrowing Notice and each request for issuance of a Facility LC shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Company that the conditions contained in , and above will be satisfied on the relevant Borrowing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, the conversion or continuation of an Advance shall not be considered the making of a Credit Extension.
Each Credit Extension
Article V
provided
Section 5.5
Section 5.6
clauses (i)
(ii)
(iii)
12.1 . (a) The terms and provisions of the Credit Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and the Banks and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Company shall not have the right to assign its rights under the Credit Documents. Any Bank may sell participations in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to below and any Bank may assign all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to below.
Successors and Assigns
clause (b)
clause (c)
(b) Any Bank may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (each a "") in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and its Outstanding Credit Exposure); that (i) such Bank's obligations under this Agreement (including its Commitment to the Company hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Bank shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Bank shall remain the holder of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Bank for all purposes of this Agreement and (iv) the Company shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Each Bank shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Credit Documents other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Loan or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest which would require consent of all of the Banks pursuant to the terms of or of any other Credit Document. The Company agrees that each Participant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under the Credit Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Bank under the Credit Documents; that each Bank shall retain the right of setoff provided in with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each Participant. The Banks agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of setoff provided in , agrees to share with each Bank, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to be shared in accordance with as if each Participant were a Bank. The Company further agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , , and to the same extent as if it were a Bank and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to ; that (i) a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , , or than the Bank that sold the participating interest to such Participant would have received had it retained such interest for its own account, unless the sale of such interest to such Participant is made with the prior written consent of the Company, and (ii) any Participant not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof agrees to comply with the provisions of to the same extent as if it were a Bank.
Participant
provided
Section 10.1
Section 12.10
provided
Section 12.10
Section 12.10
Section 12.10
Sections 4.1
4.3
4.4
4.5
Section 12.1(c)
provided
Section 4.1
4.3
4.4
4.5
Section 4.5
(c) Any Bank may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time assign to one or more financial institutions or other Persons all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement; that (i) unless such assignment is to another Bank, an affiliate of such assigning Bank or any direct or indirect contractual counterparty in any swap agreement relating to the Loans to the extent required in connection with the settlement of such Bank's obligations pursuant thereto, such Bank has received the prior written consent of the Agent, the Company (so long as no Event of Default exists) and each LC Issuer, which consents of the Company and the LC Issuers shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and (ii) the minimum principal amount of any such assignment (other than assignments to a Federal Reserve Bank, to another Bank, to an affiliate of such assigning Bank or to any direct or indirect contractual counterparty in any swap agreement relating to the Loans to the extent required in connection with the settlement of such Bank's obligations pursuant thereto) shall be $5,000,000 (or such lesser amount consented to by the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, the Company), which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that after giving effect to such assignment the assigning Bank shall have a Commitment of not less than $5,000,000 (unless otherwise consented to by the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, the Company). Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, (x) any Bank may at any time, without the consent of the Company or the Agent, assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such assignment shall release the transferor Bank from its obligations hereunder; and (y) no assignment by a Bank shall release such Bank from its obligations hereunder unless (I) the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default exists, the Company have approved such assignment or (II) the creditworthiness of such affiliate (as determined in accordance with customary standards of the banking industry) is no less than that of the assigning Bank.
provided
provided
provided
(d) Any Bank may, in connection with any sale or participation or proposed sale or participation pursuant to this , disclose to the purchaser or participant or proposed purchaser or participant any information relating to the Company furnished to such Bank by or on behalf of the Company; that prior to any such disclosure of non-public information, the purchaser or participant or proposed purchaser or participant (which purchaser or participant is not an affiliate of a Bank) shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information (except any such disclosure as may be required by law or regulatory process) relating to the Company received by it from such Bank.
Section 12.1
provided
(e) Assignments under this shall be made pursuant to an agreement (an "") substantially in the form of hereto or in such other form as may be agreed to by the parties thereto and shall not be effective until a $3,500 fee has been paid to the Agent by the assignee, which fee shall cover the cost of processing such assignment; that such fee shall not be incurred in the event of an assignment by any Bank of all or a portion of its rights under this Agreement to (i) a Federal Reserve Bank or (ii) a Bank or an affiliate of the assigning Bank or (iii) to any direct or indirect contractual counterparties in swap agreements relating to the Loans to the extent required in connection with the settlement of any Bank's obligations pursuant thereto.
Section 12.1
Assignment Agreement
Exhibit D
provided
12.2 . All representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement shall survive the making of the Credit Extensions herein contemplated.
Survival of Representations
12.3 . Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no LC Issuer or Bank shall be obligated to extend credit to the Company in violation of any limitation or prohibition provided by any applicable statute or regulation.
Governmental Regulation
12.4 . Any taxes (excluding income taxes) payable or ruled payable by any Federal or State authority in respect of the execution of the Credit Documents shall be paid by the Company, together with interest and penalties, if any.
Taxes
12.5 . THE CREDIT DOCUMENTS SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF NEW YORK, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS. THE COMPANY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY CREDIT DOCUMENT AND THE COMPANY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT. THE COMPANY HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL IN ANY ACTION OR ARISING HEREUNDER OR UNDER ANY CREDIT DOCUMENT.
Choice of Law
12.6 . Section headings in the Credit Documents are for convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of the provisions of the Credit Documents.
Headings
12.7 . The Credit Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding between the Company, the LC Issuers, the Agent and the Banks and supersede all prior agreements and understandings between the Company, the LC Issuers, the Agent and the Banks relating to the subject matter thereof (other than those contained in the Fee Letter which shall survive and remain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement).
Entire Agreement
12.8 . The Company shall reimburse the Agent and each Arranger for (a) any reasonable costs, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and time charges of attorneys for the Agent) paid or incurred by the Agent or such Arranger in connection with the preparation, review, execution, delivery, syndication, distribution (including via the internet), amendment and modification of the Credit Documents and (b) any reasonable costs, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and time charges of attorneys for the Agent) paid or incurred by the Agent or such Arranger on its own behalf or on behalf of any LC Issuer or any Bank and, on or after the date upon which an Event of Default specified in or has occurred and is continuing, each Bank, in connection with the collection and enforcement of the Credit Documents. The Company further agrees to indemnify the Agent, each Arranger, each LC Issuer, each Bank and their respective Affiliates, and the directors, officers, employees and agents of the foregoing (all of the foregoing, the "Indemnified Persons), against all losses, claims, damages, penalties, judgments, liabilities and reasonable expenses (including all reasonable expenses of litigation or preparation therefor whether or not an Indemnified Person is a party thereto) which any of them may pay or incur arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the other Credit Documents, the transactions contemplated hereby, the direct or indirect application or proposed application of the proceeds of any Credit Extension hereunder, any actual or alleged presence or release of any Hazardous Substance on or from any property owned or operated by the Company or any Subsidiary or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Company or any Subsidiary; that the Company shall not be liable to any Indemnified Person for any of the foregoing to the extent they arise from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company shall pay any civil penalty or fine assessed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control against any Indemnified Person, and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to such Indemnified Person) incurred in connection with defense thereof, as a result of any breach or inaccuracy of the representation made in . The obligations of the Company under this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Expenses; Indemnification
Section 9.1(a)
9.1(e)
provided
Section 5.14
12.9 . Any provision in any Credit Document that is held to be inoperative, unenforceable or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability or validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction, and to this end the provisions of all Credit Documents are declared to be severable.
Severability of Provisions
12.10 . In addition to, and without limitation of, any rights of the Banks under applicable law, if the Company becomes insolvent, however evidenced, or any Default or Event of Default occurs, any indebtedness from any Bank or any of its Affiliates to the Company (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) may be offset and applied toward the payment of the Obligations owing to such Bank or such Affiliate, whether or not the Obligations, or any part hereof, shall then be due. The Company agrees that any purchaser or participant under may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment with respect to such purchase or participation as if it were the direct creditor of the Company in the amount of such purchase or participation.
Setoff
Section 12.1
12.11 . If any Bank, whether by setoff or otherwise, has payment made to it upon its Outstanding Credit Exposure in a greater proportion than that received by any other Bank, such Bank agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase a portion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure held by the other Banks so that after such purchase each Bank will hold its Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. If any Bank, whether in connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise, receives collateral or other protection for its Obligations or such amounts which may be subject to setoff, such Bank agrees, promptly upon demand, to take such action necessary such that all Banks share in the benefits of such collateral ratably in proportion to their respective Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. In case any such payment is disturbed by legal process, or otherwise, appropriate further adjustments shall be made.
Ratable Payments
12.12 . The relationship between the Company, on the one hand, and the Banks, the Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Agent, on the other hand, shall be solely that of borrower and lender. None of the Agent, either Arranger, any LC Issuer or any Bank shall have any fiduciary responsibilities to the Company. None of the Agent, either Arranger, any LC Issuer or any Bank undertakes any responsibility to the Company to review or inform the Company of any matter in connection with any phase of the Company's business or operations. The Company shall rely entirely upon its own judgment with respect to its business, and any review, inspection, supervision or information supplied to the Company by the Banks is for the protection of the Banks and neither the Company nor any third party is entitled to rely thereon. The Company agrees that none of the Agent, either Arranger, any LC Issuer or any Bank shall have liability to the Company (whether sounding in tort, contract or otherwise) for losses suffered by the Company in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to, the transactions contemplated and the relationship established by the Credit Documents, or any act, omission or event occurring in connection therewith, unless it is determined in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction that such losses resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party from which recovery is sought. None of the Agent, either Arranger, any LC Issuer or any Bank shall have any liability with respect to, and the Company hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue for, any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages suffered by the Company in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Nonliability
12.13 . The Banks identified on the signature pages of this Agreement or otherwise herein, or in any amendment hereof or other document related hereto, as being the "Syndication Agent" or a Co-Documentation Agent (the "") shall have no rights, powers, obligations, liabilities, responsibilities or duties under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Banks as such. Without limiting the foregoing, the Other Agents shall not have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Bank. Each Bank acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Other Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or refraining from taking any action hereunder or pursuant hereto.
Other Agents
Other Agents
12.14 . Each Bank hereby notifies the Company that pursuant to requirements of the USA Patriot Act, such Bank is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Company, which information includes the name and address of the Company and other information that will allow such Bank to identify the Company in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act
12.15 .
Electronic Delivery
(a) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to transmit to the Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, including all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding (i) any Borrowing Notice, Conversion/Continuation Notice or notice of prepayment, (ii) any notice of a Default or an Event of Default or (iii) any communication that is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any Advance hereunder (all such non-excluded communications, collectively, ""), in an electronic/soft medium in a format reasonably acceptable to the Agent to such e-mail address as designated by the Agent from time to time. In addition, the Company shall continue to provide Communications to the Agent or any Bank in the manner specified in this Agreement but only to the extent requested by the Agent or such Bank. Each Bank and the Company further agrees that the Agent may make Communications available to the Banks by posting Communications on IntraLinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the ""); , that upon written notice to the Agent and the Company, any Bank (such bank, a "") may decline to receive Communications via the Platform and shall direct the Company to provide, and the Company shall so provide, such Communications to such Declining Bank by delivery to such Declining Bank's address in accordance with . Subject to the conditions set forth in the proviso in the immediately preceding sentence, nothing in this shall prejudice the right of the Agent to make Communications available to the Banks in any other manner specified herein.
Communications
Platform
provided
Declining Bank
Section 14.1
Section 12.15
(b) Each Bank (other than a Declining Bank) agrees that e-mail notice to it (at the address provided pursuant to the next sentence and deemed delivered as provided in below) specifying that a Communication has been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communication to such Bank for purposes of this Agreement. Each Bank (other than a Declining Bank) agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Bank to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
clause (c)
(c) Each party hereto (other than a Declining Bank) agrees that any electronic Communication referred to in this shall be deemed delivered upon the posting of a record of such Communication as "sent" in the e-mail system of the sending party or, in the case of any such Communication to the Agent, upon the posting of a record of such Communication as "received" in the e-mail system of the Agent, that if such Communication is not so received by a Person during the normal business hours of such Person, such Communication shall be deemed delivered at the opening of business on the next business day for such Person.
Section 12.15
provided
(d) Each party hereto acknowledges that the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution.
(e) EACH PARTY HERETO FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT:
(i) NONE OF THE AGENT OR ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, ADVISORS OR REPRESENTATIVES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "") WARRANTS THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM OR THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY COMMUNICATION, AND EACH AGENT PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY COMMUNICATION; AND
AGENT PARTIES
(ii) NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE PLATFORM.
13.1 . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is hereby appointed Agent hereunder, and each of the Banks irrevocably authorizes the Agent to act as the contractual representative on behalf of such Bank. The Agent agrees to act as such upon the express conditions contained in this . The Agent shall not have a fiduciary relationship in respect of any Bank by reason of this Agreement.
Appointment
Article XIII
13.2 . The Agent shall have and may exercise such powers hereunder as are specifically delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Agent shall not have any implied duties to the Banks or any obligation to the Banks to take any action hereunder except any action specifically provided by this Agreement to be taken by the Agent.
Powers
13.3 . Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable to the Banks or any Bank for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or in connection herewith except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct.
General Immunity
13.4 . The Agent shall not be responsible to the Banks for any recitals, reports, statements, warranties or representations herein or in any Credit Document or be bound to ascertain or inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms of this Agreement.
No Responsibility for Loans, Recitals, Etc
13.5 . The Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder and under any other Credit Document in accordance with written instructions signed by the Majority Banks (or all of the Banks if required by ), and such instructions and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Banks. The Banks hereby acknowledge that the Agent shall be under no duty to take any discretionary action permitted to be taken by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement or any other Credit Document unless it shall be requested in writing to do so by the Majority Banks. The Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and under any other Credit Document unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Banks pro rata against any and all liability, cost and expense that it may incur by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
Action on Instructions of Banks
Section 10.1
13.6 . The Agent may execute any of its duties as Agent hereunder by or through employees, agents and attorneys-in-fact and shall not be answerable to the Banks, except as to money or securities received by it or its authorized agents, for the default or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care. The Agent shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to the agency hereby created and its duties hereunder.
Employment of Agents and Counsel
13.7 . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon any notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, statement, paper or document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons, and, in respect to legal matters, upon the opinion of counsel selected by the Agent, which counsel may be employees of the Agent.
Reliance on Documents; Counsel
13.8 . The Banks agree to reimburse and indemnify the Agent ratably in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares (i) for any amounts not reimbursed by the Company for which the Agent is entitled to reimbursement by the Company under the Credit Documents, (ii) for any other expenses reasonably incurred by the Agent on behalf of the Banks, in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration and enforcement of the Credit Documents, and for which the Agent is not entitled to reimbursement by the Company under the Credit Documents, and (iii) for any liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind and nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other document delivered in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or the enforcement of any of the terms hereof or of any such other documents, and for which the Agent is not entitled to reimbursement by the Company under the Credit Documents; that no Bank shall be liable for any of the foregoing to the extent they arise from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Agent.
Agent's Reimbursement and Indemnification
provided
13.9 . With respect to its Commitment and any Credit Extension made by it, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder as any Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Bank" or "Banks" shall, unless the context otherwise indicates, include JPMorgan in its individual capacity. The Agent may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of banking or trust business with the Company or any Subsidiary as if it were not the Agent.
Rights as a Bank
13.10 . (a) Each Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on the financial statements prepared by the Company and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
Bank Credit Decision
(b) Without limiting above, each Bank acknowledges and agrees that neither such Bank nor any of its Affiliates, participants or assignees may rely on the Agent to carry out such Bank's or other Person's customer identification program, or other obligations required or imposed under or pursuant to the USA Patriot Act or the regulations thereunder, including the regulations contained in 31 C.F.R. 103.121 (as amended or replaced, the ""), or any other applicable law, rule, regulation or order of any governmental authority, including any program involving any of the following items relating to or in connection with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or agents, the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby: (i) any identity verification procedure; (ii) any recordkeeping; (iii) any comparison with a government list; (iv) any customer notice or (v) any other procedure required under the CIP Regulations or such other law, rule, regulation or order.
clause (a)
CIP Regulations
(c) Within 10 days after the date of this Agreement and at such other times as are required under the USA Patriot Act, each Bank and each assignee and participant that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (and is not excepted from the certification requirement contained in Section 313 of the USA Patriot Act and the applicable regulations because it is both (i) an affiliate of a depository institution or foreign bank that maintains a physical presence in the United States or foreign country and (ii) subject to supervision by a banking authority regulating such affiliated depository institution or foreign bank) shall deliver to the Agent a certification, or, if applicable, recertification, certifying that such Bank is not a "shell" and certifying as to other matters as required by Section 313 of the USA Patriot Act and the applicable regulations.
13.11 . The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Banks and the Company, and the Agent may be removed at any time with or without cause by written notice received by the Agent from the Majority Banks. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Banks shall have the right to appoint, on behalf of the Banks, a successor Agent. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Banks and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty days after the retiring Agent's giving notice of resignation, then the retiring Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Banks, a successor Agent. Such successor Agent shall be a commercial bank having capital and retained earnings of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After any retiring Agent's resignation hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Agent hereunder.
Successor Agent
Article XIII
13.12 . The Company agrees to pay to the Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JPMSI") and Barclays Capital ("Barclays"; together with JPMSI, the "Arrangers"), for their respective accounts, the fees agreed to by the Company, the Agent and the Arrangers pursuant to the letter agreement dated February 28, 2007, or as otherwise agreed from time to time.
Agent and Arranger Fees
14.1 . Except as otherwise permitted by with respect to borrowing notices, all notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including electronic transmission, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party: (x) in the case of the Company, the Agent or JPMorgan in its capacity as LC Issuer, at its address or facsimile number set forth on the signature pages hereof, (y) in the case of any Bank, at its address or facsimile number set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire or (z) in the case of any party, at such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Agent and the Company in accordance with the provisions of this . Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile transmission, when transmitted to the facsimile number specified in this Section and confirmation of receipt is received, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, or (iii) if given by any other means, when delivered (or, in the case of electronic transmission, received) at the address specified in this Section; that notices to the Agent under shall not be effective until received.
Giving Notice
Section 2.13
Section 14.1
provided
Article II
14.2 . The Company, the Agent and any Bank may each change the address for service of notice upon it by a notice in writing to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address
The Company and the Banks which are parties to the Prior Agreement (which Banks constitute "Majority Banks" under the Prior Agreement) agree that notwithstanding any requirement for notice of termination of the Commitments under Section 2.5(b) of the Prior Agreement), simultaneously with the initial Credit Extension hereunder, the Prior Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force or effect (except for any provision thereof which by its terms survives termination thereof); it being understood that concurrently with such termination, each Existing Facility LC shall be deemed to be issued hereunder.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. This Agreement shall be effective when it has been executed by the Company, the Agent, the LC Issuers and the Banks and each party has notified the Agent by facsimile or telephone that it has taken such action.
The Agent will release the Bonds without any further action or consent by the Banks, and deliver, at the Company's expense, such documents to the Company or the trustee under the Indenture as the Company may reasonably require to evidence such release, upon written request by the Company accompanied by a certificate of a Designated Officer certifying that (a) no Default or Event of Default exists prior to or after giving effect to such release and (b) at least two of the three then current ratings of the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt (without third-party credit enhancement) are as follows: (i) Baa2 or higher in the case of Moody's, (ii) BBB or higher in the case of S&P and (iii) BBB or higher in the case of Fitch.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, the Banks, the LC Issuers and the Agent have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.

CH1 3718772v.11
(the "") is made by and among:
THIS SEVENTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
The Borrower has requested that the Banks amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement (as hereafter defined) to provide the credit facility hereinafter described in the amount and on the terms and conditions set forth herein. The Banks have so agreed on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and the Agents have agreed to act as agents for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks on such terms and conditions.
The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that neither Consumers (as hereinafter defined) nor any of its Subsidiaries (as hereinafter defined) will be a party to, or will in any way be bound by any provision of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document (as hereinafter defined), and that no Loan Document will be enforceable against Consumers or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective assets.
Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms
.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means a Loan that bears interest as provided in Section 3.05(b)(i).
ABR Loan
"" is defined in Section 1.03.
Accounting Change
"" means any Lender which becomes a Lender hereunder, or whose Commitment is increased (to the extent of such increase), pursuant to an Assumption and Acceptance as provided in .
Added Lender
Section 2.03(d)
"" means, for each Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Loan made as part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
per annum
multiplied by
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including but not limited to all directors and officers of such Person), controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control another entity if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" means, as the context may require, the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents, and "Agents" means any or all of the foregoing.
Agent
"" means, for any day, a rate equal to the highest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) 1/2 of one percent above the CD Rate, and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
per annum
"" means euro, Indian Rupees and Canadian Dollars; , that if with respect to any of the foregoing currencies (x) currency control or other exchange regulations are imposed in the country in which such currency is issued with the result that different types of such currency are introduced, (y) such currency is, in the determination of the Administrative Agent, no longer readily available or freely traded or (z) in the determination of the Administrative Agent, a Dollar Equivalent of such currency is not readily calculable, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower, and such currency shall no longer be an Alternative Currency until such time as all of the Lenders agree to reinstate such currency as an Alternative Currency.
Alternative Currency
provided
"" means, on any date of determination, the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Loans determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pricing Schedule hereto.
Applicable ABR Margin
"" means, on any date of determination, the rate per annum then applicable to Eurodollar Rate Loans determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pricing Schedule hereto.
Applicable Eurodollar Margin
"" means, with respect to each Lender, at the address specified for such Lender on its signature page to this Agreement or in the Lender Assignment or Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, as applicable, or at any office, branch, subsidiary or affiliate of such Lender specified in a notice received by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower from such Lender.
Applicable Lending Office
means:
"
Applicable Rate
"
(i) in the case of each ABR Loan, a rate equal at all times to the sum of the Alternate Base Rate in effect from time to time the Applicable ABR Margin; and
per annum
plus
(ii) in the case of each Eurodollar Rate Loan comprising part of the same Borrowing, a rate during each Interest Period equal at all times to the sum of the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Eurodollar Margin.
per annum
plus
"" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Union Bank of California, N.A.
Arrangers
"" means an assumption and acceptance executed by an Added Lender and the Borrower, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in accordance with Section 2.03(d) and in substantially the form of Exhibit L hereto.
Assumption and Acceptance
"" means, for each Lender on any day, the unused portion of such Lender's Commitment, computed after giving effect to all Extensions of Credit or prepayments to be made on such day and the application of proceeds therefrom. "" means the aggregate of the Lenders' Available Commitments.
Available Commitment
Available Commitments
"" means Title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C.  101 .), as amended from time to time, and any successor statute.
Bankruptcy Code
et
seq
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" mean that certain Fourth Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2007, by and between the Borrower and the Collateral Agent, attached hereto as Exhibit I, as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Borrower Pledge Agreement
"" means a borrowing consisting of Loans of the same Type, having the same Interest Period and made or Converted on the same day by the Lenders, ratably in accordance with their respective Percentages. Any Borrowing consisting of Loans of a particular Type may be referred to as being a Borrowing of such "". All Loans of the same Type, having the same Interest Period and made or Converted on the same day shall be deemed a single Borrowing hereunder until repaid or next Converted.
Borrowing
Type
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City or Detroit, Michigan, and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Letter of Credit, a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in the principal place of business of the related Issuing Bank.
Business Day
means the lawful currency of Canada.
"
Canadian Dollar
"
means $30,000,000.
"
Canadian Dollar Sublimit
"
"" means the "Account" as defined in the Cash Collateral Agreement.
Cash Collateral Account
"" means that certain Amended and Restated Cash Collateral Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2007, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, attached as Exhibit J, as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Cash Collateral Agreement
"" means, as of any date of determination, the difference of (i) one hundred five percent (105%) of the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Outstandings at such time in respect of undrawn Letters of Credit less (y) the amount of cash on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account at such time which is free and clear of all rights and claims of third parties and has not been applied against the Obligations.
Cash Collateral Required Amount
"" means, for any period, the amount of all cash dividends received by the Borrower from its Subsidiaries during such period that are paid out of the net income or loss (without giving effect to: any extraordinary gains in excess of $25,000,000, the amount of any write-off or write-down of assets, including, without limitation, write-offs or write-downs related to the sale of assets, impairment of assets and loss on contracts, in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, and up to $200,000,000 of other non-cash write-offs) of such Subsidiaries during such period.
Cash Dividend Income
"" means the latest three-week moving average of secondary market morning offering rates in the United States for three-month certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks, such three-week moving average being determined weekly on each Monday (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day) for the three-week period ending on the previous Friday by Citibank on the basis of such rates reported by certificate of deposit dealers to and published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such publication shall be suspended or terminated, on the basis of quotations for such rates received by Citibank from three New York certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by Citibank, in either case, adjusted to the nearest 1/16 of one percent or, if there is no nearest 1/16 of one percent, to the next higher 1/16 of one percent.
CD Rate
"" means (a) any "person" or "group" within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act shall become the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the then outstanding voting capital stock of the Borrower, or (b) the majority of the board of directors of the Borrower shall fail to consist of Continuing Directors, or (c) a consolidation or merger of the Borrower shall occur after which the holders of the outstanding voting capital stock of the Borrower immediately prior thereto hold less than 50% of the outstanding voting capital stock of the surviving entity, or (d) more than 50% of the outstanding voting capital stock of the Borrower shall be transferred to any entity of which the Borrower owns less than 50% of the outstanding voting capital stock.
Change of Control
"" means Citibank, N.A., a national banking association.
Citibank
"" means Citibank, CUSA, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and each of their respective Affiliates, and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, advisors, and representatives.
Citigroup Parties
"" means April 2, 2007.
Closing Date
"" means CMS Energy Resource Management Company (formerly known as CMS Marketing, Services and Trading Company), a Michigan corporation, all of whose capital stock is on the Closing Date owned by Enterprises, and its permitted successors.
CMS ERM
"" means CMS Generation Co., a Michigan corporation, all of whose common stock is on the Closing Date owned by Enterprises, and its permitted successors.
CMS Generation
"" means all property and interests in property now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower upon which a Lien is granted under any of the Loan Documents, including, without limitation, all "Collateral" under (and as defined in) the Cash Collateral Agreement.
Collateral
"" means, for each Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Loans to the Borrower and to participate in Extensions of Credit resulting from the issuance (or extension, modification or amendment) of any Letter of Credit in an aggregate amount no greater than the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on the Commitment Schedule under the heading "Commitment" or, if such Lender has entered into one or more Lender Assignments or Assignment and Acceptances, set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 11.07(h), in each case as such amount may be modified from time to time pursuant to Section 2.03. "" means the total of the Lenders' Commitments hereunder. As of the Closing Date the aggregate of all of the Lenders' Commitments equals $300,000,000.
Commitment
Commitments
"" means, on any date of determination, the rate per annum determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pricing Schedule hereto.
Commitment Fee Rate
"" means the Schedule identifying each Lender's Commitment as of the Closing Date attached hereto and identified as such.
Commitment Schedule
"" means the earlier of (i) the Maturity Date and (ii) the date of termination or reduction in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.03 or 9.02.
Commitment Termination Date
"" is defined in Section 11.14.
Communications
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 11.08.
Confidential Information
"" means, without duplication, at any date of determination, the aggregate debt (as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP) of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries; , , that Consolidated Debt shall not include (a) any Junior Subordinated Debt owned by any Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary, (b) any guaranty by the Borrower of payments with respect to any Hybrid Preferred Securities (provided that such guaranty is subordinated to the rights of the Lenders and Issuing Banks hereunder and under the other Loan Documents pursuant to terms of subordination substantially similar to those set forth in Exhibit H, or pursuant to other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Required Lenders), (c) any Hybrid Equity Securities, (d) any Mandatorily Convertible Securities, (e) any Project Finance Debt of the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary or (f) the principal amount of any Securitized Bonds.
Consolidated Debt
provided
however
"means, with reference to any period, the pretax operating income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries ("") for such period plus, to the extent included in determining Pretax Operating Income (without duplication), (i) depreciation, depletion and amortization, (ii) non-cash write-offs and write-downs, including, without limitation, write-offs or write-downs related to the sale of assets, impairment of assets and loss on contracts and (iii) non-cash gains or losses on mark-to-market valuation of contracts, in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for such period; , , that Consolidated EBITDA shall not include any operating income attributable to that portion of the revenues of Consumers dedicated to the repayment of the Securitized Bonds.
Consolidated EBITDA
"
Pretax Operating Income
provided
however
"" means any Subsidiary whose accounts are or are required to be consolidated with the accounts of the Borrower in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means Consumers Energy Company, a Michigan corporation, all of whose common stock is on the Closing Date owned by the Borrower.
Consumers
"" means Consumer's existing $500,000,000 revolving loan facility, as in effect on the date hereof.
Consumers Credit Facility
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Borrower who (a) was a member of such board of directors on the Closing Date, or (b) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election; that an individual who is so elected or nominated in connection with a merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction shall not be a Continuing Director unless such individual was a Continuing Director prior thereto.
Continuing Director
provided
"", "" or "" refers to a conversion of Loans of one Type into Loans of another Type, or to the selection of a new, or the renewal of the same, Interest Period for Loans, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 3.02 or 3.03.
Conversion
Convert
Converted
"" means, for any Person, without duplication, any and all indebtedness, liabilities and other monetary obligations of such Person (whether for principal, interest, fees, costs, expenses or otherwise, and whether contingent or otherwise) (i) for borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (ii) to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue), (iii) as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (iv) under reimbursement or similar agreements with respect to letters of credit issued thereunder (except reimbursement obligations and letters of credit that are cash collateralized), (v) under any interest rate swap, "cap", "collar" or other hedging agreements; , for purposes of the calculation of Debt for this clause (v) only, the actual amount of Debt of such Person shall be determined on a net basis to the extent such agreements permit such amounts to be calculated on a net basis, (vi) to pay rent or other amounts under leases entered into in connection with sale and leaseback transactions involving assets of such Person being sold in connection therewith, (vii)  arising from any accumulated funding deficiency (as defined in Section 412(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) for a Plan, (viii) arising in connection with any withdrawal liability under ERISA to any Multiemployer Plan and (ix) arising from (A) direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to warrant or hold harmless, pursuant to a legally binding agreement, a creditor against loss in respect of, Debt of others referred to in clauses (i) through (viii) above and (B) other guaranty or similar financial obligations in respect of the performance of others, including Support Obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, solely for purposes of the calculation required under Section 8.01(j)(ii), Debt shall not include any Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Borrower and owned by any Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary.
Debt
provided, however
"" means the rating assigned by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as applicable, to the senior unsecured long-term debt of the Borrower (without third-party credit enhancement).
Debt Rating
"" shall be satisfied if, as of any date of determination, two of the following three conditions are satisfied: (i) the Debt Rating from S&P as of such date is BBB or higher, (ii) the Debt Rating from Moody's as of such date is Baa2 or higher and (iii) the Debt Rating from Fitch as of such date is BBB or higher.
Debt Rating Condition
"" means an event that, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
"" means a rate equal at all times to (i) in the case of any amount of principal of any Loan that is not paid when due, 2% above the Applicable Rate required to be paid on such Loan immediately prior to the date on which such amount became due, and (ii) in the case of any amount of interest, fees or other amounts payable hereunder that is not paid when due, 2% above the Applicable Rate for an ABR Loan in effect from time to time.
Default Rate
per annum
per annum
per annum
"" is defined in Section 7.01(f).
Disclosed Matters
"" means, as to Dollars, the amount thereof, and as to any Alternative Currency, the Dollar equivalent of such Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.07.
Dollar Equivalent
"" and the sign "" each means the lawful currency of the United States.
Dollars
$
"" means any state or federally chartered bank or any state-licensed foreign bank branch or agency.
Eligible Bank
"" means CMS Enterprises Company, a Michigan corporation, all of whose common stock is on the Closing Date owned by the Borrower and its permitted successors.
Enterprises
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any governmental agency or authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Substances, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Substances, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substances into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, for any period, the aggregate amount of cash received by the Borrower from its Subsidiaries during such period that are paid out of proceeds from the sale of common equity of Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Equity Distributions
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means, with respect to any Person, any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is a member of a commonly controlled trade or business under Sections 414(b), (c), (m) and (o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means the euro referred to in Council Regulation (EC) No. 1103/97 dated June 17, 1997 passed by the Counsel of the European Union, or if different, the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that participate in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union.
euro
"" means $50,000,000.
Euro Sublimit
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" means a Loan that bears interest as provided in Section 3.05(b)(ii).
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" is defined in Section 9.01.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means that certain $300,000,000 Sixth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 18, 2005, among the Borrower, Enterprises, the lenders from time to time parties thereto, and CUSA, as administrative agent and as collateral agent, as the same may have been amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means (i) the making of a Borrowing (including any Conversion), (ii) the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or (iii) the amendment of any Letter of Credit having the effect of extending the stated termination date thereof, increasing the LC Outstandings thereunder, or otherwise altering any of the material terms or conditions thereof.
Extension of Credit
"" means, with respect to any asset, the value of the consideration obtainable in a sale of such asset in the open market, assuming a sale by a willing seller to a willing purchaser dealing at arm's length and arranged in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time, each having reasonable knowledge of the nature and characteristics of such asset, neither being under any compulsion to act, and, if in excess of $50,000,000, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Borrower.
Fair Market Value
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" is defined in Section 2.02(b).
Fee Letters
"" means Fitch, Inc. or any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" is defined in Section 1.03.
GAAP
"" means any authorization, consent, approval, license, permit, certificate, exemption of, or filing or registration with, any governmental authority or other legal or regulatory body, required in connection with (i) the execution, delivery, or performance of any Loan Document by the Borrower, (ii) the grant and perfection of any Lien in favor of the Collateral Agent contemplated by the Loan Documents, or (iii) the exercise by any Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) of any right or remedy provided for under the Loan Documents.
Governmental Approval
"" is defined in Section 11.07(f).
Granting Lender
"" means any waste, substance, or material identified as hazardous, dangerous or toxic by any office, agency, department, commission, board, bureau, or instrumentality of the United States or of the State or locality in which the same is located having or exercising jurisdiction over such waste, substance or material.
Hazardous Substance
"" means any securities issued by the Borrower or a financing vehicle of the Borrower that (i) meet two of the following three criteria: are classified as possessing a minimum of "intermediate equity content" by S&P, Basket C equity credit by Moody's or 50% equity credit by Fitch and (ii) require no repayments or prepayments and no mandatory redemptions or repurchases, in each case, prior to at least 91 days after the later of the termination of the Commitments and the repayment in full of the Obligations.
Hybrid Equity Securities
"" means any preferred securities issued by a Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary, where such preferred securities have the following characteristics:
Hybrid Preferred Securities
(i) such Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary lends substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance of such preferred securities to the Borrower or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower in exchange for Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Borrower or such wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary, respectively;
(ii) such preferred securities contain terms providing for the deferral of interest payments corresponding to provisions providing for the deferral of interest payments on the Junior Subordinated Debt; and
(iii) the Borrower or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower (as the case may be) makes periodic interest payments on the Junior Subordinated Debt, which interest payments are in turn used by the Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary to make corresponding payments to the holders of the preferred securities.
"" means any Delaware statutory trust (or similar entity) (i) all of the common equity interest of which is owned (either directly or indirectly through one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower or Consumers) at all times by the Borrower or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower, (ii) that has been formed for the purpose of issuing Hybrid Preferred Securities and (iii) substantially all of the assets of which consist at all times solely of Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Borrower or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower (as the case may be) and payments made from time to time on such Junior Subordinated Debt.
Hybrid Preferred Securities Subsidiary
"" is defined in Section 11.04(b).
Indemnified Person
"" means that certain Indenture, dated as of September 15, 1992, between the Borrower and the Trustee, as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 25, 1999, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 12, 2000, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 29, 2001, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 2, 2001, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2003, the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2003, the Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 29, 2004, the Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 16, 2004, the Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, the Eighteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 19, 2005, and the Nineteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2005, as said Indenture may be further amended or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Indenture
"" means the lawful currency of India.
Indian Rupee
"" means $10,000,000.
Indian Rupee Sublimit
"" is defined in Section 3.03.
Interest Period
"" means any Lender designated by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.01(a) as the issuer of a Letter of Credit pursuant to an Issuing Bank Agreement.
Issuing Bank
"" means an agreement between an Issuing Bank and the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, providing for the issuance of one or more Letters of Credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, in support of a general corporate activity of the Borrower.
Issuing Bank Agreement
"" means any unsecured Debt of the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower (i) issued in exchange for the proceeds of Hybrid Preferred Securities and (ii) subordinated to the rights of the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents pursuant to terms of subordination substantially similar to those set forth in Exhibit G, or pursuant to other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Required Lenders.
Junior Subordinated Debt
"" is defined in Section 4.04(b).
LC Payment Notice
"" means, for any Letter of Credit on any date of determination, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit (assuming the satisfaction of all conditions for drawing enumerated therein) plus any amount which has been drawn on such Letter of Credit which has neither been reimbursed by the Borrower nor converted into an ABR Loan pursuant to the terms of Section 4.04.
LC Outstandings
"" is defined in Section 2.03(d).
Lender Addition
"" is defined in Section 11.07(e).
Lender Assignment
"" means the Banks listed on the signature pages hereof, together with their successors and permitted assigns and, if and to the extent so provided in Section 4.04(c), each Issuing Bank.
Lenders
"" means (i) a letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 4.02(a) or (ii) a Transitional Letter of Credit deemed issued by an Issuing Bank on the Closing Date pursuant to Section 4.02(b), in each case as such letter of credit may from time to time be amended, modified or extended in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Issuing Bank Agreement to which it relates.
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means any lien, security interest, or other charge or encumbrance (including the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor) of any kind, or any other type of arrangement intended or having the effect of conferring upon a creditor a preferential interest upon or with respect to any of its properties of any character (including capital stock and other equity interests, intercompany obligations and accounts).
Lien
"" means a loan by a Lender to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01, and refers to an ABR Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan (each of which shall be a "" of Loan). All Loans by a Lender of the same Type having the same Interest Period and made or Converted on the same day shall be deemed to be a single Loan by such Lender until repaid or next Converted.
Loan
Type
"" means this Agreement, any Promissory Notes, the Fee Letters, the Issuing Bank Agreement(s), the Borrower Pledge Agreement, the Cash Collateral Agreement and all other agreements, instruments and documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered pursuant hereto or thereto.
Loan Documents
"" means any mandatorily convertible equity-linked securities issued by the Borrower, so long as the terms of such securities require no repayments or prepayments and no mandatory redemptions or repurchases, in each case, prior to at least 91 days after the later of the termination of the Commitments and the repayment in full of the Obligations.
Mandatorily Convertible Securities
"" means any event, development or circumstance that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (a) the business, property, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, (b) the Borrower's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document or (c) the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or the rights or remedies of any Agent or the Lenders thereunder; that the occurrence of any Restatement Event shall not constitute a Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change
provided
"" means April 2, 2012.
Maturity Date
"" is defined in Section 8.01(i).
Measurement Quarter
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, with respect to any sale, assignment or other disposition of (but not the lease or license of) any property, or with respect to any sale or issuance of securities or incurrence of Debt, by any Person, gross cash proceeds received by such Person or any Subsidiary of such Person from such sale, assignment, disposition, issuance or incurrence (including cash received as consideration for the assumption or incurrence of liabilities incurred in connection with or in anticipation of such transaction) after (i) provision for all income or other taxes measured by or resulting from such transaction, (ii) payment of all customary underwriting commissions, auditing and legal fees, printing costs, rating agency fees and other customary and reasonable fees and expenses incurred by such Person in connection with such transaction, (iii) all amounts used to repay Debt (and any premium or penalty thereon) secured by a Lien on any asset disposed of in such sale, assignment or other disposition or which is or may be required (by the express terms of the instrument governing such Debt or by applicable law) to be repaid in connection with such sale, assignment, or other disposition, and (iv) deduction of appropriate amounts to be provided by such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person as a reserve, in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, against any liabilities associated with the assets sold, transferred or disposed of in such transaction and retained by such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person after such transaction, that "Net Proceeds" shall include on a dollar-for-dollar basis all amounts remaining in such reserve after such liability shall have been satisfied in full or terminated; , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, "Net Proceeds" shall exclude (a) any amounts received or deemed to be received by the Borrower for the purchase of the Borrower's capital stock in connection with the Borrower's dividend reinvestment program and (b) amounts received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower pursuant to any transaction with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower otherwise permitted hereunder.
Net Proceeds
provided
provided
however
"" means, with respect to any Person, the excess of such Person's total assets over its total liabilities, total assets and total liabilities each to be determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, , , from the determination of total assets (i) goodwill, organizational expenses, research and development expenses, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent applications, licenses and rights in any thereof, and other similar intangibles, (ii) cash held in a sinking, escrow or other analogous fund established for the purpose of redemption, retirement or prepayment of capital stock or Debt, and (iii) any items not included in clauses (i) or (ii) above, that are treated as intangibles in conformity with GAAP.
Net Worth
excluding
however
"" is defined in Section 3.01(a).
Notice of Borrowing
"" is defined in Section 3.02.
Notice of Conversion
"" is defined in Section 2.03(d).
Notice of Lender Addition
"" means all unpaid principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, all LC Outstandings, all accrued and unpaid fees and all expenses, reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations of the Borrower to any of the Agents, the Arrangers, the Lenders, the Issuing Banks or any other indemnified party arising under the Loan Documents.
Obligations
"" means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
OECD
"" of a Person means any of the following obligations not appearing on such Person's consolidated balance sheet: (i) all lease obligations, leveraged leases, sale and leasebacks and other similar lease arrangements of such Person, (ii) any liability under any so called "synthetic lease" or "tax ownership operating lease" transaction entered into by such Person, and (iii) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction if and to the extent that such obligation is the functional equivalent of borrowing but that does not constitute a liability on the consolidated balance sheet of such Person.
Off-Balance Sheet Liability
"" is defined in Section 5.06(b).
Other Taxes
"" of the Borrower in any Consolidated Subsidiary means, at any date of determination, the percentage determined by dividing (i) the aggregate amount of Project Finance Equity in such Consolidated Subsidiary owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower and any other Consolidated Subsidiary on such date, by (ii) the aggregate amount of Project Finance Equity in such Consolidated Subsidiary owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by all Persons (including the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries) on such date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth above, if the "Ownership Interest," calculated as set forth above, is 50% or less, such percentage shall be deemed to equal 0%.
Ownership Interest
"" is defined in Section 11.07(b).
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor entity) established under ERISA.
PBGC
"" means, for any Lender on any date of determination (a) prior to the Commitment Termination Date, the percentage obtained by dividing such Lender's Commitment on such day by the total of the Lenders' Commitments on such date, and multiplying the quotient so obtained by 100%, and (b) from and after the Commitment Termination Date, the percentage obtained by dividing (i) the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans on such day plus (B) the Dollar Equivalent of such Lender's obligation to purchase participations in LC Outstandings on such day by (ii) the Total Outstandings on such date, and multiplying the quotient so obtained by 100%.
Percentage
"" means each of the following so long as no such Permitted Investment shall have a final maturity later than six months from the date of investment therein:
Permitted Investments
(i) direct obligations of the United States, or of any agency thereof, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof;
(ii) certificates of deposit or bankers' acceptances issued, or time deposits held, or investment contracts guaranteed, by any Lender, any nationally-recognized securities dealer or any other commercial bank, trust company, savings and loan association or savings bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, or of any other country which is a member of the OECD, or a political subdivision of any such country, and in each case having outstanding unsecured indebtedness that (on the date of acquisition thereof) is rated AA- or better by S&P or Aa3 or better by Moody's (or an equivalent rating by another nationally-recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if neither of such corporations is then in the business of rating unsecured bank indebtedness);
(iii) obligations with any Lender, any other bank or trust company described in clause (ii), above, or any nationally-recognized securities dealer, in respect of the repurchase of obligations of the type described in clause (i), above, that such repurchase obligations shall be fully secured by obligations of the type described in said clause (i) and the possession of such obligations shall be transferred to, and segregated from other obligations owned by, such Lender, such other bank or trust company or such securities dealer;
provided
(iv) commercial paper rated (on the date of acquisition thereof) A-1 or P-1 or better by S&P or Moody's, respectively (or an equivalent rating by another nationally-recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if neither of such corporations is then in the business of rating commercial paper);
(v) any eurodollar certificate of deposit issued by any Lender or any other commercial bank, trust company, savings and loan association or savings bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, or of any country which is a member of the OECD, or a political subdivision of any such country, and in each case having outstanding unsecured indebtedness that (on the date of acquisition thereof) is rated AA- or better by S&P or Aa3 or better by Moody's (or an equivalent rating by another nationally-recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if neither of such corporations is then in the business of rating unsecured bank indebtedness); and
(vi) interests in any money market mutual fund which at the date of investment in such fund has the highest fund rating by each of Moody's and S&P which has issued a rating for such fund (which, for S&P, shall mean a rating of AAAm or AAAmg).
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means, with respect to any Person, an "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA (other than a Multiemployer Plan) maintained for employees of such Person or any ERISA Affiliate of such Person that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and has "unfunded benefit liabilities" as determined under Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA.
Plan
"" means, (i) with respect to any Plan, a "reportable event" within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder (other than a "reportable event" not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations or a "reportable event" for which the provision for the 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations has been waived), or (ii) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Plan during a plan year in which it was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA resulting in liability to the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates under Section 4063 or 4064 of ERISA, or (iii) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the termination of a Plan under Section 4041 of ERISA, or (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC, or (v) any other event or condition which is reasonably likely to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan.
Plan Termination Event
"" is defined in Section 11.14
Platform
"" means the rate of interest publicly announced from time to time by Citibank as its base rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
per annum
"" means Debt of any Person that is non-recourse to such Person (unless such Person is a special-purpose entity) and each Affiliate of such Person, other than with respect to the interest of the holder of such Debt in the collateral, if any, securing such Debt.
Project Finance Debt
"" means, at any date of determination, consolidated equity of the common, preference and preferred stockholders of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries relating to any obligor with respect to Project Finance Debt.
Project Finance Equity
"" means any promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of a Lender (and, if requested, its registered assigns) issued pursuant to Section 3.01(c); and "" means any or all of the foregoing.
Promissory Note
Promissory Notes
"" is defined in Section 3.04(d).
Prospective Lender
"" is defined in Section 11.08.
Recipient
"" is defined in Section 11.07(h).
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" is defined in Section 4.02(a).
Request for Issuance
"" means, on any date of determination, Lenders that, collectively, on such date hold (i) more than 50% of the Commitments of all Lenders or (ii) if the Commitments have been terminated, interests in the Total Outstandings in excess of 50% of the Total Outstandings. Any determination of those Lenders constituting the Required Lenders shall be made by the Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive and binding on all parties absent manifest error.
Required Lenders
"" means the restatement of the financial statements of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries for any fiscal quarter of 2001, as well as any adjustment of previously announced quarterly results, but only if made to reflect the restatement of such quarters.
Restatement
"" means (i) the Restatement, (ii) any lawsuit or other action previously or hereafter brought against the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates or any present or former officer or director of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates involving or arising out of the Restatement, and any settlement thereof, or other development with respect thereto, or (iii) the occurrence of any default or event of default under any indenture, instrument or other agreement or contract, or the exercise of any remedy in respect thereof, that arises directly or indirectly as a result of any of the matters described in any of the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii) or this clause (iii); , , that, for purposes of the definition of "Material Adverse Change", (a) the foregoing clause (ii) shall be inapplicable if such lawsuit or other action, settlement (in an amount in the aggregate together with all other settlements of such lawsuits or actions) or other development described in such clause (ii) could reasonably be expected, in each case, to result in liability to such Person in excess of $10,000,000 and (b) the foregoing clause (iii) shall be inapplicable if any such event described in such clause (iii) would constitute an Event of Default under Section 9.01(e).
Restatement Event
provided
however
"" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than Consumers and its Subsidiaries) that, on a consolidated basis with any of its Subsidiaries as of any date of determination, accounts for more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means any nonrecourse bonds or similar asset-backed securities issued by a special-purpose Subsidiary of Consumers which are payable solely from specialized charges authorized by the utility commission of the relevant state in connection with the recovery of regulatory assets, expenditures pursuant to the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  7401 et seq., or other qualified costs.
Securitized Bonds
"", when used with respect to any Person, means that at the time of determination:
Solvent
(i) the fair market value of its assets is in excess of the total amount of its liabilities (including, without limitation, net contingent liabilities); and
(ii) it is then able and expects to be able to pay its debts (including, without limitation, contingent debts and other commitments) as they mature; and
(iii) it has capital sufficient to carry on its business as conducted and as proposed to be conducted.
For purposes of this definition, the amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in light of all the facts and circumstances known to such Person at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
"" is defined in Section 11.07(f).
SPC
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or unincorporated entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or comparable interest) having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock (or comparable interest) of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by said Person (whether directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries). In the case of an unincorporated entity, a Person shall be deemed to have more than 50% of interests having ordinary voting power only if such Person's vote in respect of such interests comprises more than 50% of the total voting power of all such interests in the unincorporated entity.
Subsidiary
"" means, for any Person, without duplication, any financial obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or otherwise supporting any Debt or other obligation of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect (including, but not limited to, letters of credit and surety bonds in connection therewith), (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment of such Debt, (ii) to purchase property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt of the payment of such Debt, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital, available cash or other financial statement condition of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt, (iv) to provide equity capital under or in respect of equity subscription arrangements (to the extent that such obligation to provide equity capital does not otherwise constitute Debt), or (v) to perform, or arrange for the performance of, any non-monetary obligations or non-funded debt payment obligations of the primary obligor.
Support Obligation
"" means the construction and operation of Takoradi 2, a power plant currently consisting of two 110 megawatt simple-cycle units built near Aboadze, Ghana by one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower and the government of Ghana's Volta River Authority.
Takoradi Project
"" means the Amended and Restated Agreement for the Allocation of Income Tax Liabilities and Benefits, dated as of January 1, 1994, by and among the Borrower, each of the members of the Consolidated Group (as defined therein), and each of the corporations that become members of the Consolidated Group.
Tax Sharing Agreement
"" is defined in Section 5.06(a).
Taxes
"" means, as of any date of determination, the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Loans outstanding as of such date plus (ii) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Outstandings of all Letters of Credit outstanding as of such date, after giving effect to all Extensions of Credit to be made on such date and the application of the proceeds thereof.
Total Outstandings
"" is defined in Section 4.02(b).
Transitional Letter of Credit
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in the Indenture.
Trustee
"" has the meaning assigned to such term (i) in the definition of "Loan" when used in such context and (ii) in the definition of "Borrowing" when used in such context.
Type
"" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56, 115 Stat. 272 (2001), as amended.
USA Patriot Act
SECTION 1.02. Computation of Time Periods; Construction.
(a) Unless otherwise indicated, each reference in this Agreement to a specific time of day is a reference to New York City time. In the computation of periods of time under this Agreement, any period of a specified number of days or months shall be computed by including the first day or month occurring during such period and excluding the last such day or month. In the case of a period of time "from" a specified date "to" or "until" a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding".
(b) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes", and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (iv) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (v) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 7.01(e) (""), it being understood that (a) the financial covenants set forth in Sections 8.01(i) and (j) shall be calculated exclusive of (i) all debt of any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than a Subsidiary) that is (A) consolidated on the financial statements of the Borrower solely as a result of the effect and application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 and of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, as modified by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 94, and (B) non-recourse to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (ii) all debt that is re-categorized as debt from certain lease obligations pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force ("") Issue No. 01-8, any subsequent EITF Issue or recommendation or any other interpretation, bulletin or other similar document by the Financial Accounting Standards Board on or related to such re-categorization and (iii) other amounts attributable to the disposition of the Palisades nuclear power plant that are accounted for as one or more financings under GAAP and (b) for the purpose of the calculation of the financial covenant set forth in Section 8.01(i), any noncash effects resulting from adoption of the proposed "Statement of Financial Accounting Standards dated March 31, 2006: Employers' Accounting for Defined Pension and other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132" will be excluded. If any changes in generally accepted accounting principles are hereafter required or permitted and are adopted by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall change its application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to any Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, including, but not limited to, the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Nos. 45 and 46 and Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 150, in each case, with the agreement of its independent certified public accountants, and such changes result in a change in the method of calculation or the results of any of the financial covenants, tests, restrictions or standards herein or in the related definitions or terms used therein (""), the parties hereto agree, at the Borrower's request, to enter into negotiations, in good faith, in order to amend such provisions in a credit neutral manner so as to reflect equitably such changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' financial condition shall be the same after such changes as if such changes had not been made; , , until such provisions are amended in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, no Accounting Change shall be given effect in such calculations. In the event such amendment is entered into, all references in this Agreement to GAAP means generally accepted accounting principles as of the date of such amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all financial statements to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.03 shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect at such time.
SECTION 1.03. Accounting Terms
.
GAAP
EITF
Accounting Changes
provided
however
. Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make revolving loans in Dollars to the Borrower and to participate in the issuance of Letters of Credit (and the LC Outstandings thereunder) denominated in Dollars or any Alternative Currency during the period from the Closing Date until the Commitment Termination Date in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed on any day such Lender's Available Commitment (after giving effect to all Extensions of Credit to be made on such day and the application of the proceeds thereof). Within the limits hereinafter set forth, the Borrower may request Extensions of Credit hereunder, prepay Loans or reduce or cancel Letters of Credit, and use the resulting increase in the Available Commitments for further Extensions of Credit in accordance with the terms hereof.
SECTION 2.01. Making Loans
.
SECTION 2.02. Fees
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender, from the Closing Date until the date on which the Commitments shall be terminated in whole, a commitment fee equal to the product of (i) the average daily amount of such Lender's Available Commitment from time to time multiplied by (ii) the Commitment Fee Rate. Such fees shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing the first such date to occur following the Closing Date, and on the Commitment Termination Date.
(b) In addition to the fees provided for in subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers, as the case may be, the fees set forth in (i) that certain letter agreement, dated March 1, 2007 among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the other parties thereto and (ii) that certain letter agreement, dated March 1, 2007, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other parties thereto (collectively, the ""), in the amounts and at the times specified therein.
Fee Letters
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable account of the Lenders, a letter of credit fee on the daily aggregate amount of the LC Outstandings at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Eurodollar Margin, payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing on the first such date to occur following the Closing Date, on the Commitment Termination Date and thereafter on demand.
.
SECTION 2.03. Commitments; Mandatory Prepayments; Increase of Commitments
(a) . The Borrower may (and shall provide notice thereof to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of termination or reduction, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly distribute copies thereof to the Lenders) terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the Commitments; that any such partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Reduction of Commitments
provided
(b) . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control the Commitments shall be reduced to zero, the principal amount outstanding hereunder, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become and be forthwith due and payable and all of the LC Obligations shall be cash collateralized in accordance with the terms of Section 9.02, in each case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
Change of Control
(c) . The Borrower shall make a mandatory prepayment promptly and in any event within 3 Business Days after the Borrower's receipt of any Net Proceeds from the issuance, sale, assignment or other disposition of any capital stock or other equity interest in Consumers (other than the issuance of preferred securities of Consumers in respect of which the Net Proceeds received by Consumers for all such securities do not exceed $200,000,000 in the aggregate and such Net Proceeds shall not be distributed to the Borrower), together with (i) accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid and (ii) in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, any amount payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.04(b), and the Commitments shall be reduced, pro rata, in an aggregate amount equal to such Net Proceeds. Nothing in this Section 2.03(c) shall be construed to constitute the Lenders' consent to any transaction referenced in this clause (c) which is not expressly permitted by Article VIII. The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent prior written notice or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing (each of which the Administrative Agent shall promptly transmit to each Lender) of when a prepayment required by this Section 2.03(c) will be made (which date of prepayment shall be no later than the date on which such prepayment becomes due and payable pursuant to this Section 2.03(c)). All such prepayments shall be applied first to repay outstanding ABR Loans, then to repay outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans with those Eurodollar Rate Loans which have earlier expiring Interest Periods being repaid prior to those which have later expiring Interest Periods and then as cash collateral pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement, to secure LC Outstandings.
Prepayment upon Issuance or Sale of Consumers Stock
(d) The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least five (5) Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to add one or more Eligible Banks as new Lenders hereunder, or to increase the Commitment of any existing Lender with such existing Lender's consent, pursuant to the terms hereof (any such addition of a new Lender or increase in the Commitment of an existing Lender upon the request of the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.03(d) being referred to as a ""); that (i) each such proposed Lender, in the case of an Eligible Bank not already a Lender hereunder, is acceptable to the Administrative Agent (the consent of the Administrative Agent not to be unreasonably withheld); (ii) the amount of all increases to the Commitments made pursuant to this Section 2.03(d) on any Business Day shall be equal to or greater than $25,000,000 in the aggregate; and (iii) the amount of all increases to the Commitments made pursuant to this Section 2.03(d) during the term of this Agreement shall not exceed $250,000,000 in the aggregate. Each notice of a proposed Lender Addition (a "") shall be by telecopy, confirmed immediately in writing, in substantially the form of Exhibit K hereto, specifying therein (i) the name and address of the proposed Added Lender, (ii) the date on which the Borrower wishes such Lender Addition to become effective, and (iii) the amount of the Commitment such Added Lender would have hereunder after giving effect to such Lender Addition. If the conditions set forth in the proviso contained in the first sentence of this Section 2.03(d) have been satisfied, the Administrative Agent shall forward to such Added Lender and the Borrower for execution by such Added Lender and the Borrower an Assumption and Acceptance. The Added Bank shall, upon such execution, return the executed Assumption and Acceptance to the Administrative Agent, for the Administrative Agent's acceptance thereof.
Increase of Commitments; Additional Lenders.
Lender Addition
provided
Notice of Lender Addition
Upon such execution, delivery and acceptance, from and after the effective date specified in each Assumption and Acceptance, the Added Lender shall, in addition to the rights and obligations hereunder held by it immediately prior to such effective date (if any), have the rights and obligations hereunder that have been assumed by it pursuant to such Assumption and Acceptance and, in the case of an Eligible Bank not previously a Lender hereunder, shall become a Lender hereunder.
By executing and delivering an Assumption and Acceptance, each Added Lender confirms to and agrees with each party hereto as follows: (i) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender makes any representation or warranty, nor assumes any responsibility with respect to, any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (ii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender makes any representation or warranty, nor assumes any responsibility with respect to, the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto.
Upon its receipt of an Assumption and Acceptance executed by an Added Lender and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall, if such Assumption and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit L hereto, (i) accept such Assumption and Acceptance, and (ii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower. If requested by an Added Lender, the Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a new Promissory Note or Promissory Notes to the order of such Added Lender in accordance with Section 3.01(c). Such new Promissory Note or Promissory Notes shall be dated the effective date of such Assumption and Acceptance.
(e) If there are any Borrowings outstanding on the effective date of any Assumption and Acceptance, the Added Lender shall purchase from the other Lenders such participations in such Borrowings as shall be necessary to cause such Added Lender to share ratably (based on the proportion that such Added Lender's Commitment bears to the total Commitments after giving effect to the Lender Addition) in each such Borrowing. To purchase such participations, the Added Lender shall before 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the effective date of its Assumption and Acceptance, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at its address referred to in , in Dollars and in same day funds, such Added Lender's ratable portion (based on the proportion that such Added Lender's Commitment (or the increase in such Added Lender's Commitment, in the case of an Added Lender which is an existing Lender hereunder) bears to the total Commitments after giving effect to the Lender Addition) of each Borrowing then outstanding, together with an amount equal to such ratable portion of the interest which has accrued to such date and remains unpaid on such Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds, the Agent will promptly make such same day funds available to the account of each Lender in an amount equal to such Lender's ratable portion of such payment by the Added Lender.
Reallocation Upon Lender Addition.
Section 11.02
. Whenever reference is made in this Agreement to the principal amount outstanding on any date under this Agreement, such reference shall refer to the Total Outstandings. References to the unused portion of the Commitments shall refer to the excess, if any, of the Commitments hereunder over the Total Outstandings; and references to the unused portion of any Lender's Commitment shall refer to such Lender's Percentage of the unused Commitments.
SECTION 2.04. Computations of Outstandings
SECTION 3.01. Loans.
(a) The Borrower may request a Borrowing (other than a Conversion) by delivering a notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent no later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the proposed Borrowing or, in the case of ABR Loans, no later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing. The Administrative Agent shall give each Lender prompt notice of each Notice of Borrowing. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit A and shall specify the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Loans to be made in connection with such Borrowing, (iii) Interest Period, if any, for such Loans and (iv) amount of such Borrowing. Each proposed Borrowing shall conform to the requirements of Sections 3.03 and 3.04.
Notice of Borrowing
(b) Each Lender shall, before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's offices at 2 Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, DE 19270, in same day funds, such Lender's Percentage of such Borrowing. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article VI, the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Percentage of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such Percentage available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with the first sentence of this subsection (b), and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.
(c) The Extensions of Credit made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Extensions of Credit made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Promissory Note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a Promissory Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Promissory Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 11.07) be represented by one or more Promissory Notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein, except to the extent that any such Lender subsequently returns any such Promissory Note for cancellation and requests that such Loans once again be evidenced as described in the first sentence of this .
Section 3.01(c)
. The Borrower may from time to time Convert any of the Loans (or portions thereof) of any Type to one or more Loans of the same or any other Type by delivering a notice of such Conversion (a "") to the Administrative Agent (x) no later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed Conversion into a Eurodollar Rate Loan and (y) no later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of any proposed Conversion into an ABR Loan. The Administrative Agent shall give each Lender prompt notice of each Notice of Conversion. Each Notice of Conversion shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit B and shall specify (i) the requested date of such Conversion, (ii) the Type of, and Interest Period, if any, applicable to, the Loans (or portions thereof) proposed to be Converted, (iii) the requested Type of Loans to which such Loans (or portions thereof) are proposed to be Converted, (iv) the requested initial Interest Period, if any, to be applicable to the Loans resulting from such Conversion and (v) the aggregate amount of Loans (or portions thereof) proposed to be Converted. Each proposed Conversion shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04.
SECTION 3.02. Conversion of Loans
Notice of Conversion
. The period between the date of each Eurodollar Rate Loan and the date of payment in full of such Loan shall be divided into successive periods of months ("") for purposes of computing interest applicable thereto. The initial Interest Period for each such Loan shall begin on the day such Loan is made, and each subsequent Interest Period shall begin on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period for such Loan. The duration of each Interest Period shall be 1, 2, 3, or 6 months, as the Borrower may, in accordance with Section 3.01 or 3.02, select; , , that:
SECTION 3.03. Interest Periods
Interest Periods
provided
however
(i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan that ends after the Maturity Date;
(ii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next succeeding Business Day, that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
(iii) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period.
.
SECTION 3.04. Other Terms Relating to the Making and Conversion of Loans
(a) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3.01 or 3.02 to the contrary:
(i) each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $5,000,000, or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or such lesser amount as shall be equal to the total amount of the Available Commitments on such date, after giving effect to all other Extensions of Credit to be made on such date), and shall consist of Loans to the same Borrower of the same Type, having the same Interest Period and made or Converted on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Percentages;
(ii) at no time shall the number of Borrowings comprising Eurodollar Rate Loans outstanding hereunder be greater than ten (10);
(iii) no Eurodollar Rate Loan may be Converted on a date other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan unless the corresponding amounts, if any, payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.04(b) are paid contemporaneously with such Conversion;
(iv) if the Borrower shall either fail to give a timely Notice of Conversion pursuant to Section 3.02 in respect of any of the Loans or fail, in any Notice of Conversion that has been timely given, to select the duration of any Interest Period for any of the Loans to be Converted into Eurodollar Rate Loans in accordance with Section 3.03, such Loans shall, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, automatically Convert into, or remain as, as the case may be, ABR Loans; and
(v) if, on the date of any proposed Conversion, any Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing, all Loans then outstanding shall, on such date, automatically Convert into, or remain as, as the case may be, ABR Loans.
(b) If any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or that any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Applicable Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make, or to fund or maintain, Eurodollar Rate Loans hereunder, (i) the obligation of such Lender to make, or to Convert Loans into, Eurodollar Rate Loans for any Borrowing from such Lender shall be forthwith suspended until the earlier to occur of the date upon which (A) such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto and (B) it is no longer unlawful for such Lender to make, fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (ii) if the maintenance of Eurodollar Rate Loans then outstanding through the last day of the Interest Period therefor would cause such Lender to be in violation of such law, regulation or assertion, the Borrower shall either prepay or Convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans from such Lender within five days after such notice. Promptly upon becoming aware that the circumstances that caused such Lender to deliver such notice no longer exist, such Lender shall deliver notice thereof to the Administrative Agent (but the failure to do so shall impose no liability upon such Lender). Promptly upon receipt of such notice from such Lender (or upon such Lender's assigning all of its Commitment, Loans, participation and other rights and obligations hereunder pursuant to Section 11.07), the Administrative Agent shall deliver notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders and such suspension shall terminate.
(c) If the Required Lenders shall, at least one Business Day before the date of any requested Borrowing, notify the Administrative Agent that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for Eurodollar Rate Loans to be made in connection with such Borrowing will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Loans for such Borrowing, or that they are unable to acquire funding in a reasonable manner so as to make available Eurodollar Rate Loans in the amount and for the Interest Period requested, or if the Administrative Agent shall determine that adequate and reasonable means do not exist to be able to determine the Adjusted LIBO Rate, then the right of the Borrower to select Eurodollar Rate Loans for such Borrowing and any subsequent Borrowing shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and each Loan to be made or Converted in connection with such Borrowing shall be an ABR Loan.
(d) If any Lender shall have delivered a notice to the Administrative Agent described in Section 3.04(b), and if and so long as such Lender shall not have withdrawn such notice in accordance with said Section 3.04(b), the Borrower or the Administrative Agent may demand that such Lender assign in accordance with Section 11.07, to one or more Eligible Banks designated by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent (each a ""), all (but not less than all) of such Lender's Commitment, Loans, participation and other rights and obligations hereunder; , that any such demand by the Borrower during the continuance of an Event of Default or Default shall be ineffective without the consent of the Required Lenders. If, within 30 days following any such demand by the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, any such Prospective Lender so designated shall fail to consummate such assignment on terms reasonably satisfactory to such Lender, or the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall have failed to designate any such Prospective Lender, then such demand by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall become ineffective, it being understood for purposes of this provision that such assignment shall be conclusively deemed to be on terms reasonably satisfactory to such Lender, and such Lender shall be compelled to consummate such assignment forthwith, if such Prospective Lender (i) shall agree to such assignment in substantially the form of the Lender Assignment attached hereto as Exhibit F and (ii) shall tender payment to such Lender in an amount equal to the full outstanding dollar amount accrued in favor of such Lender hereunder (as computed in accordance with the records of the Administrative Agent), including, without limitation, all accrued interest and fees and, to the extent not paid by the Borrower, any payments required pursuant to Section 5.04(b).
Prospective Lender
provided
(e) Each Notice of Borrowing and Notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Borrowing which the related Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Loans, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill, on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion for such Borrowing, the applicable conditions (if any) set forth in this Article III (other than failure pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04(b) or (c) hereof) or in Article VI, including any such loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Loan to be made by such Lender when such Loan, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
SECTION 3.05. Repayment of Loans; Interest
(a) . The Borrower shall repay the outstanding principal amount of the Loans on the Maturity Date (or such earlier date as may be required pursuant to Section 2.03 or 9.02).
Principal
(b) . All Loans shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount thereof from the date of such Loan until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the Applicable Rate for such Loan (except as otherwise provided in this subsection (b)), payable as follows:
Interest
(i) . If such Loan is an ABR Loan, interest thereon shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, on the date of any Conversion of such ABR Loan and on the date such ABR Loan shall become due and payable or shall otherwise be paid in full; that any amount of principal that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall bear interest, from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate equal at all times to the Default Rate.
ABR Loans
provided
per annum
(ii) . If such Loan is a Eurodollar Rate Loan, interest thereon shall be payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if the Interest Period for such Loan has a duration of more than three months, on that day of each third month during such Interest Period that corresponds to the first day of such Interest Period (or, if any such month does not have a corresponding day, then on the last day of such month); that any amount of principal that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall bear interest, from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate equal at all times to the Default Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
per annum
. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may from time to time identify and arrange for one or more Lenders reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent to act as Issuing Banks hereunder. Any such designation by the Borrower shall be notified to the Administrative Agent at least three (3) Business Days prior to the first date upon which the Borrower proposes that such Issuing Bank issue its first Letter of Credit. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to require any Lender to agree to act as an Issuing Bank, if it does not so desire. In the event of any conflict between any Issuing Bank Agreement and this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
SECTION 4.01. Issuing Banks
.
SECTION 4.02. Letters of Credit
(a) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued (or the stated maturity thereof extended or terms thereof modified or amended) for the account of the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than Consumers or any Subsidiary thereof) on not less than three (3) Business Days' prior written notice thereof to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly distribute copies thereof to the Lenders) and the relevant Issuing Bank and shall be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency. Each such notice (a "") shall be delivered no later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the proposed date of issuance, extension, modification or amendment and shall specify (i) the date (which shall be a Business Day) of issuance of such Letter of Credit (or the date of effectiveness of such extension, modification or amendment) and the stated expiry date thereof (which shall be no later than the earlier of the date that is five (5) Business Days (or, in the case of any commercial Letter of Credit, thirty (30) Business Days) prior to the Commitment Termination Date and the date which is one year after the requested date of issuance, that any Letter of Credit with a one year tenor may provide for the renewal thereof for additional periods of up to one year which shall in no event extend beyond the date which is five (5) Business Days (or, in the case of any commercial Letter of Credit, thirty (30) Business Days) prior to the Commitment Termination Date), (ii) the proposed stated amount of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be less than $100,000 (or the Dollar Equivalent thereof in an Alternative Currency) unless otherwise agreed by the applicable Issuing Bank), (iii) the currency in which such Letter of Credit shall be denominated (which currency shall be Dollars or an Alternate Currency), and (iv) such other information as shall demonstrate compliance of such Letter of Credit with the requirements specified therefor in this Agreement and the relevant Issuing Bank Agreement. Each Request for Issuance shall be irrevocable unless modified or rescinded by the Borrower in writing not less than two (2) Business Days prior to the proposed date of issuance (or effectiveness) specified therein. Not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the proposed date of issuance (or effectiveness) specified in such Request for Issuance, and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions precedent and the other requirements set forth herein and in the relevant Issuing Bank Agreement, such Issuing Bank shall issue (or extend, amend or modify) such Letter of Credit and provide notice and a copy thereof to the Administrative Agent, which shall promptly furnish notice thereof to each Lender.
Request for Issuance
provided
(b) Schedule II contains a schedule of certain letters of credit issued for the account of the Borrower prior to the Closing Date. Subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions contained in Article VI, from and after the Closing Date such letters of credit shall be deemed to be Letters of Credit issued pursuant to this Article IV for all purposes hereunder (each such Letter of Credit, a ""). For purposes of clarification, each term or provision applicable to the issuance of a Letter of Credit (including conditions applicable thereto) shall be deemed to include the deemed issuance of the Transitional Letters of Credit on the Closing Date.
Transitional Letter of Credit
(c) Each Lender severally agrees with each Issuing Bank to participate in the Extension of Credit resulting from the issuance or deemed issuance (or extension, modification or amendment) of each Letter of Credit issued or deemed issued (or extended, amended or modified) pursuant to this Section 4.02 in the manner and the amount provided in Section 4.04(b), and the issuance or deemed issuance of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a confirmation by each Issuing Bank and each Lender of such participation in such amount.
(d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Issuing Bank shall have any obligation to, and no Issuing Bank shall, issue, extend, amend or modify any Letter of Credit if on the date of such issuance, extension, amendment or modification, before or after giving effect thereto, (i) the Total Outstandings at such time would exceed the Commitments, (ii) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Outstandings with respect to Letters of Credit denominated in euros would exceed the Euro Sublimit (iii) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Outstandings with respect to Letters of Credit denominated in Indian Rupees would exceed the Indian Rupee Sublimit or (iv) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Outstandings with respect to Letters of Credit denominated in Canadian Dollars would exceed the Canadian Dollar Sublimit.
. The Borrower shall pay directly to each Issuing Bank such fees and expenses, if any, specified to be paid to such Issuing Bank pursuant to each Issuing Bank Agreement to which it is a party, at the times, and in the manner, specified in such Issuing Bank Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. Issuing Bank Fees
.
SECTION 4.04. Reimbursement to Issuing Banks
(a) The Borrower hereby agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Issuing Bank, on demand made by such Issuing Bank to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, on and after each date on which such Issuing Bank shall pay any amount under any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, a sum in Dollars equal to the Dollar Equivalent of the amount so paid (calculated as of the date of such payment by such Issuing Bank) plus interest on such Dollar Equivalent of such amount from the date so paid by such Issuing Bank until repayment to such Issuing Bank in full at a fluctuating interest rate equal at all times to the Applicable Rate for ABR Loans.
per annum
(b) If any Issuing Bank shall not have been reimbursed in full by the Borrower for any payment made by such Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank on the date of such payment, such Issuing Bank shall give the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt notice thereof (an "") no later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately succeeding the date of such payment by such Issuing Bank. Each Lender severally agrees to purchase from each Issuing Bank a participation in the reimbursement obligation of the Borrower to such Issuing Bank under subsection (a) above, by paying to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank an amount in Dollars equal to such Lender's Percentage of the Dollar Equivalent of such unreimbursed amount paid by such Issuing Bank (calculated as of the date of such payment by such Issuing Bank), plus interest on such Dollar Equivalent of such amount at a rate equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate from the date of such payment by such Issuing Bank to the date of payment to such Issuing Bank by such Lender. Each such payment by a Lender shall be made not later than 3:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the later to occur of (i) the Business Day immediately following the date of such payment by such Issuing Bank and (ii) the Business Day on which such Lender shall have received an LC Payment Notice from such Issuing Bank. Each Lender's obligation to make each such payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank shall be several and shall not be affected by the occurrence or continuance of any Default or Event of Default or the failure of any other Lender to make any payment under this Section 4.04. Each Lender further agrees that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
LC Payment Notice
per annum
(c) The failure of any Lender to make any payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of an Issuing Bank in accordance with subsection (b) above, shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation to make payment, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender. If any Lender shall fail to make any payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of an Issuing Bank in accordance with subsection (b) above, within five (5) Business Days after the LC Payment Notice relating thereto, then, for so long as such failure shall continue, such Issuing Bank shall be deemed, for purposes of Section 5.05 and Article IX hereof and the Cash Collateral Agreement, to be a Lender hereunder owed a Loan in an outstanding principal amount equal to the amount due and payable by such Lender to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank pursuant to subsection (b) above.
(d) Each participation purchased by a Lender under subsection (b) above, shall constitute an ABR Loan in the amount in Dollars paid by such Lender to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank and shall be deemed made by such Lender to the Borrower on the date of the related payment by the relevant Issuing Bank under the applicable Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (irrespective of the Borrower's noncompliance, if any, with the conditions precedent for Loans hereunder); and all such payments by the Lenders in respect of any one such payment by such Issuing Bank shall constitute a single Borrowing hereunder.
. The payment obligations of each Lender under Section 4.04(b) and of the Borrower under this Agreement in respect of any payment under any Letter of Credit and any Loan made under Section 4.04(d) shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following circumstances:
SECTION 4.05. Obligations Absolute
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto or to such Letter of Credit;
(ii) any amendment or waiver of, or any consent to departure from, all or any of the Loan Documents;
(iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right which the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary, or any transferee, of such Letter of Credit (or any Persons for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated herein or by such Letter of Credit, or any unrelated transaction;
(iv) any statement or any other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
(v) payment in good faith by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank against presentation of a draft or certificate which does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or
(vi) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
.
SECTION 4.06. Indemnification; Liability of Issuing Banks and the Lenders
(a) In addition to amounts payable as elsewhere provided in this Agreement, the Borrower hereby agrees to pay and to protect, indemnify, and save harmless each Indemnified Person from and against any and all liabilities and costs that any such Indemnified Person may incur or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (i) the issuance, execution and delivery or transfer of or payment or failure to pay under any Letter of Credit or (ii) the failure of any Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under any Letter of Credit as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful, of any present or future de jure or de facto government or governmental authority, in each case other than to the extent solely as a result of the (x) gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment or (y) any Issuing Bank's failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit.
(b) The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts and omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit. Neither the Issuing Bank that has issued such Letter of Credit, nor any other Indemnified Person, shall be liable or responsible for (i) the use that may be made of such Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee thereof in connection therewith; (ii) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (iii) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to such Letter of Credit; or (iv) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under such Letter of Credit, that the Borrower shall have the right to bring suit against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to the Borrower and any Lender, to the extent of any direct, as opposed to consequential, damages suffered by the Borrower or such Lender which the Borrower or such Lender proves were caused by such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment, including such Issuing Bank's willful failure to make timely payment under such Letter of Credit following the presentation to it by the beneficiary thereof of a draft and accompanying certificate(s) which strictly comply with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, any Issuing Bank may accept sight drafts and accompanying certificates presented under any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Lender shall be obligated to indemnify the Borrower for damages caused by any Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence, and the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the Lenders hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, notwithstanding the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Issuing Bank.
except
(c) The Borrower's other obligations under this Section 4.06 shall survive the repayment of all amounts owing to the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Agents under the Loan Documents and the termination of the Commitments. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this Section 4.06 are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law.
. The Dollar Equivalent of any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency shall be determined by the Issuing Bank in accordance with prevailing exchange rates, as set forth in the applicable Issuing Bank Agreement, and notice of such amount shall be provided to the Administrative Agent, in each case on the applicable date. The Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of each Letter of Credit outstanding made in an Alternative Currency and of the amount of each participation purchased by a Lender under Section 4.04(b) shall be recalculated hereunder on (i) each date that it shall be necessary to determine the unused portion of each Lender's Commitment, or the outstanding amount of any or all Loans, LC Outstandings or any Extension of Credit, or (ii) on any such other date which the Administrative Agent deems such recalculation necessary or advisable or is otherwise directed to make such recalculation by the Required Lenders, but in any event at least monthly. The Administrative Agent agrees to provide notice to the Lenders of the relevant Dollar Equivalent determined pursuant to each such determination and each such recalculation as soon as practicable following such determination or recalculation, as the case may be.
SECTION 4.07. Currency Equivalents
. If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or under the Promissory Notes in any currency (the "") into another currency (the "") the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the Original Currency with the Other Currency at the Administrative Agent's main office in New York, New York on the Business Day immediately preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due in the Original Currency from it to any Lender, any Issuing Bank, the Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any Other Currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender, Issuing Bank, Collateral Agent or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) of any sum adjudged to be so due in such Other Currency such Lender, Issuing Bank, Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Original Currency with such Other Currency; if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender, Issuing Bank, Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent (as the case may be) in the Original Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender, Issuing Lender, Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due in the Original Currency to any Lender, Issuing Lender, Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent (as the case may be), such Lender, Issuing Lender, Collateral Agent or Administrative Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
SECTION 4.08. Judgment Currency
Original Currency
Other Currency
. The Borrower agrees that it will maintain pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement a cash collateral account, in the name of the Borrower but under the sole dominion and control of the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of itself, the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuers and the Lenders. The Borrower hereby pledges, assigns and grants to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of itself, the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuers and the Lenders, a security interest in all of its right, title and interest in and to all funds which may from time to time be on deposit in such account to secure the prompt and complete payment and performance of all reimbursement obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing with respect to LC Obligations.
SECTION 4.09. Cash Collateral Agreement
. If at any time any Issuing Bank shall have been served with or otherwise subjected to a court order, injunction, or other process or decree issued or granted at the instance of the Borrower restraining or seeking to restrain such Issuing Bank from paying any amount under any Letter of Credit issued by it (other than pursuant to any action or proceeding based on Section 5-109 of the Uniform Commercial Code) and either (i) there has been a drawing under such Letter of Credit which such Issuing Bank would otherwise be obligated to pay or (ii) the stated expiration date or any reduction of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit has occurred but the right of the beneficiary to draw thereunder has been extended in connection with the pendency of the related court action or proceeding, the Borrower shall provide cash collateral pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement in an amount equal to one hundred five percent (105%) of the Dollar Equivalent of the LC Outstandings at such time in respect of such Letter of Credit.
SECTION 4.10. Court Order
.
SECTION 5.01. Payments and Computations
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the other Loan Documents not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 2 Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, DE 19270, in same day funds, except payments to be made directly to any Issuing Bank as expressly provided herein; any payment received after 3:00 p.m. (New York City time) shall be deemed to have been received at the start of business on the next succeeding Business Day, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received from, or on behalf of, the Borrower a Federal Reserve reference number with respect to such payment before 4:00 p.m. (New York City time). The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts payable to the Lenders, to the respective Lenders to which the same are payable, for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If and to the extent that any distribution of any payment from the Borrower required to be made to any Lender pursuant to the preceding sentence shall not be made in full by the Administrative Agent on the date such payment was received by the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall pay to such Lender, upon demand, interest on the unpaid amount of such distribution, at a rate equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate, from the date of such payment by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent to the date of payment in full by the Administrative Agent to such Lender of such unpaid amount. Upon the Administrative Agent's acceptance of a Lender Assignment and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 11.07, from and after the effective date specified in such Lender Assignment, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Promissory Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Lender Assignment shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
per annum
(b) The Borrower hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, if and to the extent payment owed to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, is not made when due hereunder (or, in the case of a Lender, under any Promissory Note held by such Lender), to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, any amount so due.
(c) All computations of interest based on the Alternate Base Rate (when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate) shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be. All other computations of interest and fees hereunder (including computations of interest based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the CD Rate and the Federal Funds Effective Rate) shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days. In each such case, such computation shall be made for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each such determination by the Administrative Agent or a Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest and fees hereunder; , , that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Loans to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day and such reduction of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest hereunder.
provided
however
(e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, such Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender, together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
(f) Any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder or under any of the Promissory Notes that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall (to the fullest extent permitted by law) bear interest, from the date when due until paid in full, at a rate equal at all times to the Default Rate, payable on demand.
per annum
(g) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied, subject to Section 5.07, (i) , toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , toward payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto.
first
second
. The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of Section 3.05(b)(i) or (ii).
SECTION 5.02. Interest Rate Determination
The Borrower shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Loans other than as follows:
SECTION 5.03. Prepayments.
(a) The Borrower may (and shall provide notice thereof to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of prepayment, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly distribute copies thereof to the Lenders), and if such notice is given, the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Loans made as part of the same Borrowing, in whole or ratably in part; , that each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or such lesser amount as shall be equal to the total amount of Loans outstanding to the Borrower).
provided, however
(b) On any date on which (i) any termination or optional or mandatory reduction of the Commitments shall occur pursuant to Section 2.03(a) or (b) or (ii) the Total Outstandings shall exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments, the Borrower shall , pay or prepay the principal outstanding on the Loans and/or all LC Outstandings that represent amounts that have been drawn under Letters of Credit but have neither been reimbursed by the Borrower nor converted into ABR Loans, , if all of the Loans and all of such unreimbursed amounts constituting LC Outstanding shall have been paid in full, provide cash collateral pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement, to secure remaining LC Outstandings, and , cause an amount of Letters of Credit to be cancelled (if necessary after taking into account the payments and provision of cash collateral in the immediately preceding clauses), in each case, in an aggregate amount equal to the excess, as applicable, of (A) the Total Outstandings over (B) the aggregate amount of the sum of the Commitments (following such termination or reduction, if any) and any cash collateral on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account. Any payments and prepayments required by clause "" of this subsection (b) shall be applied to outstanding ABR Loans up to the full amount thereof before they are applied to outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans.
first
second
third
first
(c) On any date on which (i) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Outstandings denominated in euros shall exceed the Euro Sublimit, (ii) all LC Outstandings denominated in Indian Rupees shall exceed the Indian Rupee Sublimit, or (iii) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Outstandings denominated in Canadian Dollars shall exceed the Canadian Dollar Sublimit, the Borrower shall provide cash collateral pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement, to secure the LC Outstandings in an aggregate amount equal to the excess, as applicable, of (A)(1) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Outstandings denominated in euro, over (2) the sum of the Euro Sublimit and, without duplication, such cash collateral, (B)(1) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Outstandings denominated in Indian Rupees, over (2) the sum of the Indian Rupee Sublimit and, without duplication, such cash collateral or (C)(1) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of all LC Outstandings denominated in Canadian Dollars, over (2) the sum of the Canadian Dollar Sublimit and, without duplication, such cash collateral.
(d) Any prepayment pursuant to this Section 5.03 shall be accompanied by (i) accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount repaid and (ii) in the case of prepayments of Eurodollar Rate Loans, any amount payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.04(b). In the event that the Borrower requests the release of any cash collateral pursuant to the terms of the Cash Collateral Agreement and on the date of such request or at any time prior to the time of such release, there has become, or there becomes, due and payable any prepayment of any Loans under this Agreement, the Borrower hereby directs the Administrative Agent to apply the proceeds of such release of cash collateral to such prepayment of such Loans and agrees that any such request is a confirmation of such direction.
.
SECTION 5.04. Yield Protection
(a) . If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation after the Closing Date, or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) issued or made after the Closing Date, there shall be reasonably incurred any increase in (A) the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Loans, or of participating in the issuance, maintenance or funding of any Letter of Credit, or (B) the cost to any Issuing Bank of issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit, then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such increased cost. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost and giving a reasonable explanation thereof, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, shall constitute such demand and shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
(b) . If (i) due to any prepayment pursuant to Section 2.03, an acceleration of maturity of the Loans pursuant to Section 9.02, or any other reason, any Lender receives payments of principal of any Eurodollar Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period relating to such Loan, (ii) the Borrower shall Convert any Eurodollar Rate Loans on any day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor, (iii) the Borrower shall fail to prepay a Eurodollar Rate Loan on the date specified in a notice of prepayment or (iv) a Eurodollar Rate Loan is not made or continued, or an ABR Loan is not Converted to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, on the date specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion, the Borrower shall, promptly after demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for additional losses, costs, or expenses (including anticipated lost profits) that such Lender may reasonably incur as a result of such occurrence, including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund or maintain such Loan. For purposes of this subsection (b), a certificate setting forth the amount of such additional losses, costs, or expenses and giving a reasonable explanation thereof, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender, shall constitute such demand and shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Breakage
(c) . If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that (i) compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or Issuing Bank, whether directly, or indirectly as a result of commitments of any Person controlling such Lender or Issuing Bank (but without duplication), and (ii) the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon (A) the existence of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's commitment to lend or issue or participate in any Letter of Credit hereunder, (B) the participation in or issuance or maintenance of any Letter of Credit or Loan or (C) other similar such commitments, then, upon demand by such Lender or Issuing Bank, the Borrower agrees immediately to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender or Issuing Bank from time to time as specified by such Lender or Issuing Bank additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender or Issuing Bank reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the transactions contemplated hereby. A certificate as to such amounts and giving a reasonable explanation thereof (to the extent permitted by law), submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender or Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Capital
(d) . Each Lender and Issuing Bank hereby agrees to use its best efforts to notify the Borrower of the occurrence of any event referred to in subsection (a), (b) or (c) of this Section 5.04 promptly after becoming aware of the occurrence thereof. The failure of any Lender or any Issuing Bank to provide such notice or to make demand for payment under said subsection shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's (as the case may be) rights hereunder; that, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Section 5.04, the Borrower shall not be required to reimburse any Lender or any Issuing Bank for any amounts or costs incurred under subsection (a), (b) or (c) of this Section 5.04 more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender or such Issuing Bank's (as the case may be) notifies the Borrower in writing thereof, in each case unless, and to the extent that, any such amounts or costs so incurred shall relate to the retroactive application of any event notified to the Borrower which entitles such Lender or such Issuing Bank (as the case may be) to such compensation. If any Lender or any Issuing Bank shall subsequently determine that any amount demanded and collected under this Section 5.04 was done so in error, such Lender or such Issuing Bank (as the case may be) will promptly return such amount to the Borrower.
Notices
provided
(e) . Subject to subsection (d) above, the Borrower's obligations under this Section 5.04 shall survive the repayment of all other amounts owing to the Lenders, the Agents and the Issuing Banks under the Loan Documents and the termination of the Commitments. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this Section 5.04 are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law.
Survival of Obligations
If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Loans owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 5.04 or Section 5.06) in excess of its ratable share of payments obtained by all the Lenders on account of the Loans of such Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participation in the Loans owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 5.05 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Lender shall obtain any such excess payment involuntarily, such Lender may, in lieu of purchasing participations from the other Lenders in accordance with this Section 5.05, on the date of receipt of such excess payment, return such excess payment to the Administrative Agent for distribution in accordance with Section 5.01(a).
SECTION 5.05. Sharing of Payments, Etc.
provided, however
.
SECTION 5.06. Taxes
(a) All payments by the Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall be made in accordance with Section 5.01, free and clear of and without deduction for all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , in the case of each Lender, each Issuing Bank and each Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to any Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 5.06) such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
excluding
Taxes
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender, Issuing Bank and Agent for the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including any Taxes and any Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 5.06) paid by such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. This indemnification shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor; that such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) shall not be entitled to demand payment under this Section 5.06 for an amount if such demand is not made within one year following the date upon which such Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent (as the case may be) shall have been required to pay such amount.
provided,
(d) Within thirty (30) days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 11.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.
(e) Each Bank represents and warrants that either (i) it is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States or (ii) it has delivered to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent duly completed copies of such form or forms prescribed by the United States Internal Revenue Service indicating that such Bank is entitled to receive payments without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, as permitted by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Each other Lender agrees that, on or prior to the date upon which it shall become a party hereto, and upon the reasonable request from time to time of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such Lender will deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (to the extent that it is not prohibited by law from doing so) either (A) a statement that it is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States or (B) duly completed copies of such form or forms as may from time to time be prescribed by the United States Internal Revenue Service, indicating that such Lender is entitled to receive payments without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, as permitted by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Each Bank that has delivered, and each other Lender that hereafter delivers, to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent the form or forms referred to in the two preceding sentences further undertakes to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, to the extent that it is not prohibited by law from doing so, further copies of such form or forms, or successor applicable form or forms, as the case may be, as and when any previous form filed by it hereunder shall expire or shall become incomplete or inaccurate in any respect. Each Lender represents and warrants that each such form supplied by it to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower pursuant to this subsection (e), and not superseded by another form supplied by it, is or will be, as the case may be, complete and accurate.
.
SECTION 5.07. Apportionment of Payments
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03, Section 5.03(b) and Section 5.07(b), all payments of principal and interest in respect of outstanding Loans, all payments in respect of unpaid reimbursement obligations under Section 4.04(a), all payments of fees and all other payments in respect of any other Obligations hereunder, shall be allocated among such of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks as are entitled thereto, ratably or otherwise as expressly provided herein. Except as provided in Section 5.07(b) with respect to payments and proceeds of Collateral received after the occurrence of an Event of Default, all such payments and any other amounts received by the Administrative Agent from or for the benefit of the Borrower shall be applied:
(i) first, to pay principal of and interest on any portion of the Loans which the Administrative Agent may have advanced on behalf of any Lender other than Citibank for which the Administrative Agent has not then been reimbursed by such Lender or the Borrower;
(ii) second, to pay interest on and then the principal of the Loans then due and payable (in the order described hereinbelow);
(iii) third to pay principal of and interest on all unpaid reimbursement obligations under Section 4.04(a);
(iv) fourth, to the Cash Collateral Account, to secure outstanding Letters of Credit to the extent required pursuant to this Agreement;
(v) fifth, to pay all other Obligations under any Loan Document then due and payable, ratably; and
(vi) sixth, as the Borrower so designates.
All such principal and interest payments in respect of the Loans shall be applied first to repay outstanding ABR Loans and then to repay outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans with those Eurodollar Rate Loans which have earlier expiring Interest Periods being repaid prior to those which have later expiring Interest Periods.
(b) During the continuance of an Event of Default and after declaration thereof by written notice from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall apply all payments in respect of Loans, unpaid reimbursement obligations under Section 4.04(a) or any other Obligations, and the Collateral Agent shall deliver all proceeds of Collateral to the Administrative Agent for application, in the following order:
(i) first, to pay principal of and interest on any portion of the Loans which the Administrative Agent may have advanced on behalf of any Lender other than Citibank for which the Administrative Agent has not then been reimbursed by such Lender or the Borrower;
(ii) second, to pay any fees, expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Agents under any of the Loan Documents;
(iii) third, to the ratable payment of any fees, expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks under any of the Loan Documents;
(iv) fourth, to the ratable payment of interest due in respect of the Loans, in accordance with the Lenders' respective Percentages;
(v) fifth, to the ratable payment or prepayment of principal outstanding on all Loans, in accordance with the Lenders' respective Percentages;
(vi) sixth, to pay principal of and interest on all unpaid reimbursement obligations under Section 4.04(a);
(vii) seventh, to the Cash Collateral Account to secure LC Obligations in respect of outstanding Letters of Credit, in an amount equal to the Cash Collateral Required Amount; and
(viii) eighth, to the ratable payment of all other Obligations then outstanding under the Loan Documents.
The order of priority set forth in this Section 5.07(b) and the related provisions of this Agreement are set forth solely to determine the rights and priorities of the Agents and the Lenders as among themselves.
. During the continuance of an Event of Default and after declaration thereof by written notice from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, the Borrower shall cause all proceeds of Collateral to be deposited pursuant to arrangements for the collection of such amounts established by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (or the Collateral Agent, as applicable) for application pursuant to Section 5.07. All collections of proceeds of Collateral which are received directly by the Borrower shall be deemed to have been received by the Borrower as the Collateral Agent's trustee and, during the continuance of an Event of Default and after declaration thereof by written notice from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, upon the Borrower's receipt thereof, the Borrower shall immediately transfer all such amounts to the Administrative Agent for application pursuant to Section 5.07. All other proceeds of Collateral received by the Collateral Agent and/or the Administrative Agent, whether through direct payment or otherwise, will be deemed received by such Agent, will be the sole property of such Agent, and will be held by such Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders for application pursuant to Section 5.07.
SECTION 5.08. Proceeds of Collateral
. The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions precedent:
SECTION 6.01. Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Agreement
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, on or before the Closing Date, the following, in form and substance satisfactory to each Lender (except where otherwise specified below) and (except for any Promissory Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
(i) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors, or of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, of the Borrower authorizing the Borrower to enter into each Loan Document and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate or other action and Governmental Approvals, if any, with respect to each such Loan Document.
(ii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names, true signatures and incumbency of (A) the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign the Loan Documents and the other documents to be delivered hereunder and thereunder and (B) the representatives of the Borrower authorized to sign notices to be provided under the Loan Documents, which representatives shall be acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
(iii) Copies of the Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws of the Borrower, together with all amendments thereto, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower.
(iv) Good Standing Certificate for the Borrower issued by the Secretary of State of Michigan as of a recent date.
(v) The Cash Collateral Agreement, duly executed by the Borrower.
(vi) The Borrower Pledge Agreement, duly executed by the Borrower.
(vii) A certified copy of Schedule I hereto, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent setting forth:
(A) all Project Finance Debt of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006; and
(B) debt (as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP) of the Borrower as of December 31, 2006.
(viii) Favorable opinions of: (A) James Brunner, Esq., General Counsel of the Borrower, in substantially the form of Exhibit C and as to such other matters as the Required Lenders, through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably request and (B) Sidley Austin LLP, special counsel to the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit D.
(b) The following statements shall be true and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Closing Date and in sufficient copies for each Lender stating that:
(i) the representations and warranties set forth in Section 7.01 of this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of such date,
(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default or an Event of Default, and
(iii) all Governmental Approvals necessary in connection with the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby and the continuing operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been obtained and are in full force and effect, and all third party approvals necessary or advisable in connection with the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby and the continuing operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been obtained and are in full force and effect, other than filings necessary to create or perfect security interests in the Collateral or as may be required under applicable energy, antitrust or securities laws in connection with the exercise of remedies with respect to certain Collateral.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that all financing statements relating to the Collateral have been completed for filing or recording and/or filed, and all certificates representing capital stock or other ownership interests included in the Collateral have been delivered to the Collateral Agent (with duly executed stock powers).
(d) The Borrower shall have paid, on or before the Closing Date, all fees under or referenced in Section 2.02(b) and all expenses referenced in Section 11.04(a), in each case to the extent due and payable as of the Closing Date.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following on or before the Closing Date, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to it with sufficient copies for each Lender:
(i) A certificate, executed by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Borrower and Consumers, as applicable, in favor of the Agents and the Lenders with respect to the financial statements described in Sections 7.01(e)(i) and (ii) certifying that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and are true and correct as of the date of such certificate;
(ii) Copies of the financial statements described in Sections 7.01(e)(i) and (ii); and
(iii) Copies of the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that on the Closing Date all "Letters of Credit" under (and as defined in) the Existing Credit Agreement shall constitute Transitional Letters of Credit hereunder and all "Loans" under (and as defined in) the Existing Credit Agreement and all other amounts due under the Existing Credit Agreement have been paid in full by the Borrower and Enterprises.
. The obligation of each Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to make an Extension of Credit (including the initial Extension of Credit (including the deemed issuance of the Transitional Letters of Credit), but excluding the Conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Loan into an ABR Loan) shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that, on the date of such Extension of Credit and after giving effect thereto:
SECTION 6.02. Conditions Precedent to Each Extension of Credit
(a) The following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable notice or request with respect thereto and the making of such Extension of Credit without prior correction by the Borrower shall (to the extent that such correction has been previously consented to by the Lenders and the Issuing Banks) constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that, on the date of such Extension of Credit, such statements are true):
(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 7.01 of this Agreement (other than those contained in subsections (e)(iii) and (f) thereof) are correct on and as of the date of such Extension of Credit, before and after giving effect to such Extension of Credit and to the application of the proceeds thereof, as though made on and as of such date; and
(ii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Extension of Credit or the application of the proceeds thereof.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions and documents as any Lender or Issuing Bank, through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably request as to the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Loan Documents or the business, property, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
. The obligation of each Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to make an Extension of Credit (including the initial Extension of Credit (including the deemed issuance of the Transitional Letters of Credit)) that would (after giving effect to all Extensions of Credit on such date and the application of proceeds thereof) increase the principal amount outstanding hereunder, or to make an Extension of Credit of the type described in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition thereof (except any amendment of a Letter of Credit the sole effects of which are to extend the stated termination date thereof and/or to make nonmaterial modifications thereto), shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that, on the date of such Extension of Credit and after giving effect thereto:
SECTION 6.03. Conditions Precedent to Certain Extensions of Credit
(a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable notice or request with respect thereto and the making of such Extension of Credit without prior correction by the Borrower shall (to the extent that such correction has been previously consented to by the Lenders) constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that, on the date of such Extension of Credit, such statements are true):
(i) unless the Debt Rating Condition is satisfied on such date, the representation and warranty contained in subsection (e)(iii) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement is correct on and as of the date of such Extension of Credit, before and after giving effect to such Extension of Credit and to the application of the proceeds thereof, as though made on and as of such date;
(ii) the representations and warranties contained in subsection (f) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement are correct on and as of the date of such Extension of Credit, before and after giving effect to such Extension of Credit and to the application of the proceeds thereof, as though made on and as of such date; and
(iii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Extension of Credit or the application of the proceeds thereof;
(b) the Administrative Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions and documents as any Lender or Issuing Bank, through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably request.
. The Lenders, the Issuing Banks and each Agent shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon the certificates delivered from time to time by officers of the Borrower as to the names, incumbency, authority and signatures of the respective persons named therein until such time as the Administrative Agent may receive a replacement certificate, in form acceptable to the Administrative Agent, from an officer of the Borrower identified to the Administrative Agent as having authority to deliver such certificate, setting forth the names and true signatures of the officers and other representatives of the Borrower thereafter authorized to act on behalf of the Borrower.
SECTION 6.04. Reliance on Certificates
. The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
SECTION 7.01. Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) . Each of the Borrower, Consumers and each of the Restricted Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of its organization and is duly qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, all other jurisdictions where the nature of its business or the nature of property owned or used by it makes such qualification necessary.
Existence and Standing
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document (i) are within the Borrower's powers, (ii) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action or proceedings and (iii) do not and will not (A) require any consent or approval of the stockholders (or other applicable holder of equity) of the Borrower (other than such consents and approvals which have been obtained and are in full force and effect), (B) violate any provision of the charter or by-laws of the Borrower or of law, (C) violate any legal restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower, (D) result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, any indenture or loan or credit agreement or any other agreement, lease or instrument to which the Borrower is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound or affected, or (E) result in or require the creation of any Lien (other than pursuant to the Loan Documents) upon or with respect to any of its respective properties.
Authorization; No Conflicts
(c) . No Governmental Approval is required, other than filings necessary to create or perfect security interests in the Collateral or as may be required under applicable energy, antitrust or securities laws in connection with the exercise of remedies with respect to certain Collateral.
Government Consent
(d) . Each Loan Document (i) where applicable, creates valid and, upon filing of the financing statements delivered on or prior to the Closing Date and described in Section 6.01(c), perfected security interests in the Collateral covered thereby securing the payment of all of the Loans and reimbursement obligations purported to be secured thereby, which security interests shall be first priority perfected security interests, subject to Liens permitted under Section 8.02(a), and (ii) is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms; subject to the qualification, however, that the enforcement of the rights and remedies herein and therein is subject to bankruptcy and other similar laws of general application affecting rights and remedies of creditors and the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Security Interests; Enforceability
(e) . (i) The consolidated balance sheets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal years then ended, included in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, copies of each of which have been furnished to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Lender, fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at such dates and the results of operations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied; (ii) the consolidated balance sheets of Consumers and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of Consumers and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal years then ended, included in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, copies of each of which have been furnished to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Lender, fairly present the financial condition of Consumers and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at such dates and the results of operations of Consumers and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied; (iii) since December 31, 2006, except as disclosed in the Borrower's Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since December 31, 2006 but prior to the Closing Date, there has been no Material Adverse Change; and (iv) except as a result of any Restatement Event (other than the Restatement itself), the Borrower has no material liabilities or obligations except as reflected in the foregoing financial statements and in Schedule I, as evidenced by the Loan Documents and as may be incurred, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in the ordinary course of business (as presently conducted) following the Closing Date.
Financial Statements; Material Adverse Change
(f) . Except (i) as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and the Borrower's Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since December 31, 2006 but prior to the Closing Date, (ii) such other similar actions, suits and proceedings predicated on the occurrence of the same events giving rise to any actions, suits and proceedings described in the Reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission set forth in clause (i) above (all such matters in clauses (i) and (ii) being the ) and (iii) any Restatement Event, there are no pending or threatened actions, suits, investigations or proceedings against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator, that would, if adversely determined, reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the financial condition, properties, business or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, or affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. There have been no material adverse developments with respect to the Disclosed Matters that have had or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Litigation
"Disclosed Matters"
(g) . All insurance required by Section 8.01(b) is in full force and effect.
Insurance
(h) . No Plan Termination Event has occurred nor is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates which would result in a material liability to the Borrower, except as disclosed and consented to by the Required Lenders in writing from time to time. Except as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2006, since the date of the most recent Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report of the Borrower (Form 5500 Series), if any, there has been no material adverse change in the funding status of the Plans referred therein and no has occurred with respect thereto which is reasonably expected to result in a material liability to the Borrower. Neither the Borrower nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has incurred nor reasonably expects to incur any material withdrawal liability under ERISA to any Multiemployer Plan, except as disclosed and consented to by the Required Lenders in writing from time to time.
ERISA
"prohibited transaction"
(i) . No fire, explosion, accident, strike, lockout or other labor dispute, drought, storm, hail, earthquake, embargo, act of God or of the public enemy or other casualty (except for any such circumstance, if any, which is covered by insurance which coverage has been confirmed and not disputed by the relevant insurer) affecting the properties, business or operations of the Borrower, Consumers or any Restricted Subsidiary has occurred that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, property, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of (A) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, or (B) Consumers and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.
Casualty
(j) . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all tax returns (Federal, state and local) required to be filed and paid all taxes shown thereon to be due, including interest and penalties, or, to the extent the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is contesting in good faith an assertion of liability based on such returns, has provided adequate reserves for payment thereof in accordance with GAAP.
Taxes
(k) . No extraordinary judicial, regulatory or other legal constraints exist which limit or restrict Consumers' ability to declare or pay cash dividends with respect to its capital stock, other than (i) pursuant to the Consumers Credit Facility or (ii) any such restriction enacted or imposed by the Michigan Public Service Commission.
Legal Constraints on Dividends
(l) . The Borrower owns (i) not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Enterprises and (ii) not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Consumers.
Ownership of Certain Subsidiaries
(m) . The Consolidated 2007-2011 Projections of Consumers and the Borrower (the "") are based upon assumptions that the Borrower believed were reasonable at the time the Projections were delivered, it being recognized by the Administrative Agent and the Banks that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ from the projected results, and all other financial information delivered by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and the Banks on and after the Closing Date is true and correct in all material respects as at the dates and for the periods indicated therein in light of the circumstances under which such information was provided.
Accuracy of Disclosures
Projections
(n) (i) The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of buying or carrying "margin stock" (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board), (ii) and no proceeds of any Loan or any drawing under any Letter of Credit will be used to buy or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock and (iii) following application of the proceeds of each Extension of Credit, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis will be margin stock.
Regulation U.
(o) . The Borrower is not an "investment company" (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended).
Investment Company Act
(p) . No proceeds of any Loan or any drawing under any Letter of Credit will be used to acquire any security in any transaction without the approval of the board of directors of the Person issuing such security if (i) the acquisition of such security would cause the Borrower to own, directly or indirectly, 5.0% or more of any outstanding class of securities issued by such Person, or (ii) such security is being acquired in connection with a tender offer.
Acquisition of Securities
(q) . The Borrower has not withheld any fact from the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Lenders in regard to the occurrence of any Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change Information
(r) . After giving effect to the Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued on the Closing Date or such other date as Loans or Extensions of Credit requested hereunder are made, and the disbursement of the proceeds of such Loans or Extensions of Credit pursuant to the Borrower's instructions, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, are Solvent.
Solvency
(s) . Schedule I sets forth as of December 31, 2006 (i) all Project Finance Debt of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (ii) all debt (as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP) of the Borrower, and, as of the Closing Date, there are no defaults in the payment of principal or interest on any such debt and no payments thereunder have been deferred or extended beyond their stated maturity (except as disclosed on such Schedule).
Project Finance Debt
(t) . None of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Borrower is named on the United States Department of the Treasury's Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons list available through or as otherwise published from time to time.
OFAC
http://www.treas.gov/offices/eotffc/ofac/ sdn/t11sdn.pdf
. So long as any Loan or any other amount payable hereunder or under any Promissory Note shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment:
SECTION 8.01. Affirmative Covenants
(a) The Borrower shall pay and discharge, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges, royalties or levies imposed upon it or upon its property , in the case of taxes, to the extent the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof, as the case may be, is contesting the same in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and has set aside adequate reserves for the payment thereof in accordance with GAAP.
Payment of Taxes, Etc.
except
(b) . The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries and Consumers to maintain, insurance covering the Borrower and each of the Restricted Subsidiaries and Consumers and their respective properties in effect at all times in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general geographical area in which the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries and Consumers operate, either with reputable insurance companies or, in whole or in part, by establishing reserves of one or more insurance funds, either alone or with other corporations or associations.
Maintenance of Insurance
(c) Except as otherwise permitted by Section 8.02, the Borrower shall preserve and maintain, and shall cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries and Consumers to preserve and maintain, its corporate or limited liability company existence, material rights (statutory and otherwise) and franchises, and take such other action as may be necessary or advisable to preserve and maintain its right to conduct its business in the states where it shall be conducting its business.
Preservation of Existence, Etc.
(d) The Borrower shall comply, and shall cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries and Consumers to comply, in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any governmental authority, including any such laws, rules, regulations and orders relating to zoning, environmental protection, use and disposal of Hazardous Substances, land use, construction and building restrictions, and employee safety and health matters relating to business operations.
Compliance with Laws, Etc.
(e) . Subject to the requirements of laws or regulations applicable to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, and in effect at the time, at any time and from time to time upon reasonable notice, the Borrower shall permit (i) each Agent and its agents and representatives to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and the properties of, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and (ii) each Agent, each of the Issuing Banks, each of the Lenders, and their respective agents and representatives to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and accountants. Each such visitation and inspection described in the preceding sentence by or on behalf of any Lender or Issuing Bank shall, unless occurring at a time when a Default or Event of Default shall be continuing, be at such Lender's or Issuing Bank's, as applicable, expense; all other such inspections and visitations shall be at the Borrower's expense.
Inspection Rights
(f) . The Borrower shall keep, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper records and books of account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the assets and business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in accordance with GAAP.
Keeping of Books
(g) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries to maintain, in substantial conformity with all laws and material contractual obligations, good and marketable title to all of its properties which are used or useful in the conduct of its business; that the foregoing shall not restrict the sale or transfer of any asset of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary to the extent not otherwise prohibited by the terms of this Agreement. In addition, the Borrower shall preserve, maintain, develop, and operate, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve, maintain, develop and operate, in substantial conformity with all laws and material contractual obligations, all of its material properties which are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc.
provided, however,
(h) . The Borrower shall use all Extensions of Credit for general corporate purposes (subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement).
Use of Proceeds
(i) . The Borrower shall maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter (in each case, the ""), a maximum ratio of (i) Consolidated Debt as of such day, to (ii) Consolidated EBITDA for the immediately preceding four-fiscal-quarter period ending on such day, of not more than 7.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
Measurement Quarter
(j) . The Borrower shall maintain, as of the last day of each Measurement Quarter, a minimum ratio of (i) the sum of (A) Cash Dividend Income for the four-fiscal-quarter period ending on such day, plus (B) amounts received by the Borrower pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement during such period plus (C) the lesser of (x) 25% of the Net Proceeds received by the Borrower during such period from the sale, assignment or other disposition (but not the lease or license) of any property, including without limitation, any sale of capital stock or other equity interest in any of the Borrower's direct or indirect Subsidiaries, and (y) $150,000,000 to (ii) an amount equal to (A) interest expense (excluding (1) all arrangement, underwriting and other similar fees payable in connection with this Agreement, (2) all arrangement, underwriting and upfront fees paid in connection with the Existing Credit Agreement and this Agreement, (3) all interest or dividends paid on Hybrid Preferred Securities and Hybrid Equity Securities, (4) interest expense payable by the Borrower in respect of any Debt owing to any Subsidiary thereof and (5) all costs (including, without limitation, any prepayment or option premium or expense) otherwise included in interest expense recognized on early retirement of debt) accrued by the Borrower in respect of all Debt during such period, plus (B) cash United States federal income taxes paid by the Borrower during such period minus (C) cash interest income received by the Borrower from Persons other than any Subsidiary of the Borrower during such period, (D) all amounts received by the Borrower from its Subsidiaries and Affiliates during such period constituting reimbursement of interest expense and commitment, guaranty and letter of credit charges of the Borrower to such Subsidiary or Affiliate, of not less than 1.20 to 1.00; , that the Borrower shall be deemed not to be in breach of the foregoing covenant if, during the Measurement Quarter, the Borrower has permanently reduced the principal amount outstanding under this Agreement and the Promissory Notes, such that the amount determined pursuant to clause (ii) above, when recalculated on a basis assuming that the amount of such reduced principal amount outstanding under this Agreement and the Promissory Notes were in effect at all times during such four-fiscal-quarter period, would result in the Borrower being in compliance with such ratio.
Cash Coverage Ratio
minus
provided
pro forma
(k) . The Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver all further instruments and documents, and take all further action, that may be necessary or that any Lender or any Issuing Bank through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in order to give effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. In addition, the Borrower will use all reasonable efforts to duly obtain or make Governmental Approvals required from time to time on or prior to such date as the same may become legally required.
Further Assurances
(l) . The Borrower shall comply with all of its respective obligations under the Fee Letters.
Compliance with Fee Letters
(m) . The Borrower shall cause each of its direct Subsidiaries to pay all dividends within 30 days after declaration thereof.
Payment of Declared Dividend
(n) .
Collateral
(i) Subject to the following paragraph (ii), the Borrower will cause all of its right, title and interest in, to and under the Collateral to be subject at all times to first priority, perfected security interests in favor of the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Lenders to secure the Obligations, subject in any case to Liens permitted under Section 8.02(a).
(ii) If any time (i) no Default or Event of Default exists, and (ii) the Debt Rating Condition is satisfied, the Collateral Agent shall, promptly upon the request of the Borrower, release its Liens on the Collateral (other than the "Collateral" under (and as defined) in the Cash Collateral Agreement) and terminate the Borrower Pledge Agreement. If at any time after any such release the Debt Rating Condition shall not be satisfied, the Borrower shall cause all of its right, title and interest in, to and under the property constituting Collateral at the time of such release to be pledged to the Collateral Agent as security for the Obligations pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent in form and substance.
. So long as any Loan or any other amount payable hereunder or under any Promissory Note shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment, the Borrower agrees that it shall not, without the written consent of the Required Lenders:
SECTION 8.02. Negative Covenants
(a) . (1) Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any of the Restricted Subsidiaries to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, any Lien upon or with respect to any of its properties of any character (including capital stock and other ownership interests of the Borrower's directly-owned Subsidiaries, intercompany obligations and accounts), whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or (2) file, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to file, under the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction a financing statement which names the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary as debtor (other than financing statements that do not evidence a Lien), or (3) sign, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to sign, any security agreement or other document authorizing any secured party thereunder to file any such financing statement, or (4) assign, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to assign, accounts, excluding, however, from the operation of the foregoing restrictions the Liens created under the Loan Documents and the following:
Liens, Etc
(i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies to the extent not past due;
(ii) cash pledges or deposits to secure (A) obligations under workmen's compensation laws or similar legislation, (B) public or statutory obligations, (C) reimbursement obligations of Restricted Subsidiaries with respect to letters of credit permitted pursuant to Section 8.02(b)(x), (D) Support Obligations and (E) obligations of Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of hedging arrangements and commodity purchases and sales (including any cash margins with respect thereto); , that with respect to clauses (D) and (E) above the aggregate amount of cash pledges or deposits securing such obligations shall not exceed $400,000,000 at any one time outstanding, and (F) obligations of (x) the Borrower in respect of interest rate swap agreements and (y) the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary in respect of foreign exchange swap agreements, that the aggregate amount of cash pledges or deposits securing such obligations under this clause (F) shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any one time outstanding;
provided
provided
(iii) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations which are not overdue or which have been fully bonded and are being contested in good faith;
(iv) Liens securing the obligations under the Loan Documents;
(v) Liens securing Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities (and all refinancings and recharacterizations thereof permitted under Section 8.02(b)(iv)) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $775,000,000;
(vi) purchase money Liens or purchase money security interests upon or in property acquired or held by the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of any such property to be subject to such Liens or security interests, or Liens or security interests existing on any such property at the time of acquisition, or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, that no such Lien or security interest shall extend to or cover any property other than the property being acquired and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover property not theretofore subject to the Lien or security interest being extended, renewed or replaced, and , , that the aggregate principal amount of the Debt at any one time outstanding secured by Liens permitted by this clause (vi) shall not exceed $15,000,000;
provided
provided
further
(vii) utility easements, building restrictions and such other encumbrances or charges against real property as are of a nature generally existing with respect to properties of a similar character and which do not in any material way affect the marketability of the same or interfere with the use thereof in the business of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary;
(viii) Liens existing on any capital asset of any Person at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into, or otherwise acquired by, the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary and not created in contemplation of such event, that such Liens do not encumber any other property or assets and such merger, consolidation or acquisition is otherwise permitted under this Agreement;
provided
(ix) Liens existing on any capital asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary and not created in contemplation thereof; that such Liens do not encumber any other property or assets;
provided
(x) Liens existing as of the Closing Date or, with respect to any Restricted Subsidiary, such later date as such Person shall become a Restricted Subsidiary;
(xi) Liens securing Project Finance Debt otherwise permitted under this Agreement;
(xii) Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any Debt secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses (v), (viii), (ix), (x) or (xi); that (a) such Debt is not secured by any additional assets, and (b) the amount of such Debt secured by any such Lien is otherwise permitted under this Agreement; and
provided
(xiii) Liens on the capital stock of Consumers securing Debt incurred by the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (other than Consumers or any Subsidiary thereof) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000,000; , that (i) such Liens are pari passu with, or subordinated in priority to, the Liens securing the Obligations, (ii) the holders of such Debt shall have entered into an intercreditor agreement with the Collateral Agent reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent as to form and substance and (iii) such Debt has terms and conditions (including maturity, amortization, interest rates, premiums, fees, covenants, subordination, events of default and remedies) that are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
provided
(b) . Permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than Consumers or any Subsidiary thereof) to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any debt (as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP) other than:
Debt
(i) debt arising by reason of the endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of such Subsidiary's business;
(ii) in the form of indemnities in respect of unfiled mechanics' liens and Liens affecting such Subsidiary's properties permitted under Section 8.02(a)(iii);
(iii) debt arising under the Loan Documents;
(iv) debt constituting Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities (including any recharacterization thereof as debt pursuant to any changes in generally accepted accounting principles hereafter required or permitted and which are adopted by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with the agreement of its independent certified public accountants) to the extent permitted by Section 8.02(n), and any extensions, renewals, refundings or replacements thereof, that any such extension, renewal, refunding or replacement is in an aggregate principal amount not greater than the principal amount of, is an obligation of the same Person that is the obligor in respect of, and has a weighted average life to maturity not less than the weighted average life to maturity of, the debt so extended, renewed, refunded or replaced;
provided
(v) other debt outstanding on the Closing Date (including the debt of the Borrower as of December 31, 2006 as set forth on Schedule I), and any extensions, renewals, refundings or replacements thereof, that any such extension, renewal, refunding or replacement is in an aggregate principal amount not greater than the principal amount of, is an obligation of the same Person that is the obligor in respect of, and has a weighted average life to maturity not less than the weighted average life to maturity of, the debt so extended, renewed, refunded or replaced;
provided
(vi) unsecured debt (a) owed to the Borrower by any Subsidiary or (b) owed to any Subsidiary by the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(vii) Project Finance Debt incurred on or after the Closing Date the proceeds of which are used by the obligor of such Project Finance Debt for (A) working capital purposes (including construction or other capital expenditures), (B) acquisition of additional assets or (C) redemption of equity interests in such Person;
(viii) capital lease obligations and other Debt secured by purchase money Liens to the extent such Liens shall be permitted under Section 8.02(a)(vi);
(ix) Project Finance Debt incurred by Takoradi International Company in respect of the Takoradi Project (other than Project Finance Debt permitted to be incurred pursuant to above) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $20,000,000;
clause (vii)
(x) reimbursement obligations of Enterprises, CMS Generation or CMS ERM with respect to letters of credit issued by Bank of America, N.A. (or any of its affiliates), in connection with the settlement of claims related to CMS ERM's energy trading operations in an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000; and
(xi) additional debt (as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP) not otherwise permitted under this Section 8.02(b) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $350,000,000 at any time outstanding.
(c) Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, any obligations as lessee for the rental or hire of real or personal property of any kind under leases or agreements to lease (other than leases which constitute Debt) having an original term of one year or more which would cause the aggregate direct or contingent liabilities of the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all such obligations payable in any period of 12 consecutive calendar months to exceed $50,000,000.
Lease Obligations.
(d) . Make, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to make, any loan or advance to any Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire any capital stock, obligations or other securities of, make any capital contribution to, or otherwise invest in, any Person, other than (i) Permitted Investments, (ii) pursuant to the contractual or contingent obligations of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary as in effect as of the Closing Date (or, with respect to any Restricted Subsidiary, such later date as such Person shall become a Restricted Subsidiary) in an amount not to exceed such contractual or contingent obligation as in effect on such date, (iii) investments in the capital stock or other ownership interests of any Subsidiary of the Borrower, (iv) loans and advances to Subsidiaries of the Borrower (other than Consumers or any Subsidiary thereof) to the extent the corresponding debt is permitted under Section 8.02(b)(vi), (v) investments constituting non-cash consideration received in connection with the sale of any asset not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement, (vi) additional loans, advances, purchases, contributions and other investments in an amount not to exceed $600,000,000 in the aggregate at any time and (vii) intercompany loans and advances by the Borrower to Consumers in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $300,000,000 at any time.
Investments in Other Persons
(e) . Declare or pay, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to declare or pay, directly or indirectly, any dividend, payment or other distribution of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any share of any class of common stock of the Borrower or any share of any class of capital stock or other ownership interests of any of the Restricted Subsidiaries (other than (1) stock splits and dividends payable solely in nonconvertible equity securities of the Borrower (other than Redeemable Stock or Exchangeable Stock (as such terms are defined in the Indenture on the Closing Date)) and (2) dividends and distributions made to the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary), or purchase, redeem, retire, or otherwise acquire for value, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to purchase, redeem, retire, or otherwise acquire for value, any shares of any class of common stock of the Borrower or any share of any class of capital stock or other ownership interests of any Restricted Subsidiary or any warrants, rights, or options to acquire any such shares, now or hereafter outstanding, or make, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to make, any distribution of assets to any of its shareholders (other than distributions to the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary) (any such dividend, payment, distribution, purchase, redemption, retirement or acquisition being hereinafter referred to as a "") other than (i) pursuant to the terms of any class of capital stock of the Borrower issued and outstanding (and as in effect on) the Closing Date, any purchase or redemption of capital stock of the Borrower made by exchange for, or out of the proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale of, capital stock of the Borrower (other than Redeemable Stock or Exchangeable Stock (as such terms are defined in the Indenture on the Closing Date)); (ii) payments made by the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement; and (iii) any cash dividend or cash distribution on common stock of the Borrower; , that no payments shall be made pursuant to the preceding clause (iii) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date of declaration or distribution thereof or would result therefrom.
Restricted Payments
Restricted Payment
provided
(f) . (i) Permit to exist any "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), (ii) terminate, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to terminate, any Plan or withdraw from, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to withdraw from, any Multiemployer Plan, so as to result in any material (in the opinion of the Required Lenders) liability of the Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers to such Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC, or (iii) permit to exist any occurrence of any Reportable Event (as defined in Title IV of ERISA), or any other event or condition, which presents a material (in the opinion of the Required Lenders) risk of such a termination by the PBGC of any Plan or withdrawal from any Multiemployer Plan so as to result in a material liability to the Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers.
Compliance with ERISA
(g) . Enter into, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to enter into, any transaction with any of its Affiliates unless such transaction is on terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than if the transaction had been negotiated in good faith on an arm's-length basis with a non-Affiliate; that any transaction permitted under Sections 8.02(b), 8.02(e) or 8.02(h) shall be permitted hereunder.
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
(h) Merge with or into or consolidate with or into, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers to merge with or into or consolidate with or into, any other Person, that any Subsidiary (other than Consumers or any Subsidiary thereof) may merge with or into the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary, that (a) in any such merger with or into the Borrower, the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (b) no Default or Event of Default shall be continuing or result therefrom and (c) neither the Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary shall be liable with respect to any Debt or allow its property to be subject to any Lien which it could not become liable with respect to or allow its property to become subject to under this Agreement or any other Loan Document on the date of such transaction.
Mergers, Etc.
except
provided
(i) . Sell, lease, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, to give effect to a transaction permitted by subsection (h) above or subsection (j) below, , , that neither the Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary shall sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of any property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or any income or profits therefrom, or enter into any agreement to do so, except:
Sales, Etc., of Assets
except
provided
further
(A) the sale of property for consideration not less than the Fair Market Value thereof so long as cash consideration resulting from such sale shall be (x) in an amount determined by the Borrower for any sale the consideration of which is $10,000,000 or less, or, together with all other such sales under this clause (x), $25,000,000 or less, or (y) for all other sales, not less than 90% of the aggregate consideration resulting from such sale;
(B) the transfer of assets from (i) the Borrower to any Subsidiary or (ii) a Restricted Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(C) the transfer of property constituting an investment otherwise permitted under Section 8.02(d);
(D) the sale of electricity and natural gas and other property in the ordinary course of the Borrower's and the Restricted Subsidiaries' respective businesses consistent with past practice;
(E) any transfer of an interest in receivables and related security, accounts or notes receivable on a limited recourse basis in connection with the incurrence of Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, , that such transfer qualifies as a legal sale and as a sale under GAAP and the incurrence of such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities is permitted under Section 8.02(n);
provided
(F) the disposition of equipment if such equipment is obsolete or no longer useful in the ordinary course of the Borrower's or such Restricted Subsidiary's business; and
(G) the sale of assets described on Schedule III hereto.
(j) Sell, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of any Restricted Subsidiary or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such capital stock or other ownership interests, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to issue, sell, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any shares of its capital stock or other ownership interests or the capital stock or other ownership interests of any other Restricted Subsidiary (other than CMS Generation) or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such capital stock or other ownership interests, except to give effect to a transaction permitted by subsection (d), (h) or (i) above.
Maintenance of Ownership of Restricted Subsidiaries.
(k) . Directly or indirectly, amend, modify, supplement, waive compliance with, seek a waiver under, or assent to noncompliance with, any term, provision or condition of the Tax Sharing Agreement if the effect of such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or assent is to (i) reduce materially any amounts otherwise payable to, or increase materially any amounts otherwise owing or payable by, the Borrower thereunder, or (ii) change materially the timing of any payments made by or to the Borrower thereunder.
Amendment of Tax Sharing Agreement
(l) . Engage, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to engage, in any business other than (a) the business engaged in by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof, and (b) any business or activities which are substantially similar, related or incidental thereto.
Conduct of Business
(m) . Amend, modify or otherwise change, or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to amend, modify or otherwise change any of the terms or provisions in any of their respective certificate of incorporation and by-laws (or comparable constitutive documents) as in effect on the Closing Date in any manner adverse to the interests of the Lenders.
Organizational Documents
(n) . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than Consumers and its Subsidiaries) to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities (exclusive of lease obligations otherwise permitted under Section 8.02(c)) in the aggregate in excess of $775,000,000 at any time.
Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities
. So long as any Loan or any other amount payable hereunder or under any Promissory Note shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment, the Borrower will, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, furnish to the Administrative Agent (for delivery to each Lender), the following:
SECTION 8.03. Reporting Obligations
(a) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Borrower knows or should have reason to know of the occurrence of each Default or Event of Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default or Event of Default and the action that the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(b) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, (i) a consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income and retained earnings and of cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter (which requirement shall be deemed satisfied by the delivery of the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for such quarter), all in reasonable detail and duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the results of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such periods and having been prepared in accordance with GAAP, (ii) a consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income and retained earnings and of cash flows of Consumers and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter (which requirement shall be deemed satisfied by the delivery of the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for such quarter), all in reasonable detail and duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of Consumers as fairly presenting the financial condition of Consumers and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the results of Consumers and its Subsidiaries for such periods and having been prepared in accordance with GAAP, (iii) a schedule (substantially in the form of Exhibit E appropriately completed) of (1) the computations used by the Borrower in determining compliance with the covenants contained in Sections 8.01(i) and 8.01(j), (2) all Project Finance Debt of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries, together with the Borrower's Ownership Interest in each such Consolidated Subsidiary and (3) all Support Obligations of the Borrower of the types described in clauses (iv) and (v) of the definition of Support Obligations (whether or not each such Support Obligation or the primary obligation so supported is fixed, conclusively determined or reasonably quantifiable), to the extent such Support Obligations have not been previously disclosed as "" pursuant to clause (1) above, and (iv) a certificate of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower stating that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action that the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
Consolidated Debt
(c) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Annual Report on Form 10-K (or any successor form) for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such year, including therein (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and consolidated statements of income and retained earnings and of cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, accompanied by a report thereon of a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm, and (ii) a consolidated balance sheet of Consumers and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and consolidated statements of income and retained earnings and of cash flows of Consumers and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, accompanied by a report thereon of a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm, together with (iii) a schedule (substantially in the form of Exhibit E appropriately completed) of (1) the computations used by such accounting firm in determining, as of the end of such fiscal year, compliance with the covenants contained in Sections 8.01(i) and 8.01(j), (2) all Project Finance Debt of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries, together with the Borrower's Ownership Interest in each such Consolidated Subsidiary and (3) all Support Obligations of the Borrower of the types described in clauses (iv) and (v) of the definition of Support Obligations (whether or not each such Support Obligation or the primary obligation so supported is fixed, conclusively determined or reasonably quantifiable), to the extent such Support Obligations have not been previously disclosed as "" pursuant to clause (1) above, and (iv) a certificate of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower stating that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action that the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
Consolidated Debt
(d) as soon as possible and in any event (A) within 30 days after the Borrower knows or has reason to know that any Plan Termination Event described in clause (i) of the definition of Plan Termination Event with respect to any Plan of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of the Borrower has occurred and could reasonably be expected to result in a material liability to the Borrower and (B) within 10 days after the Borrower knows or has reason to know that any other Plan Termination Event with respect to any Plan of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of the Borrower has occurred and could reasonably be expected to result in a material liability to the Borrower, a statement of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower describing such Plan Termination Event and the action, if any, which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(e) promptly after receipt thereof by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from the PBGC, copies of each notice received by the Borrower or any such ERISA Affiliate of the PBGC's intention to terminate any Plan or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
(f) promptly and in any event within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Internal Revenue Service, copies of each Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report (Form 5500 Series) with respect to each Plan (if any) to which the Borrower is a contributing employer;
(g) promptly after receipt thereof by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor, a copy of each notice received by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates concerning the imposition or amount of withdrawal liability in an aggregate principal amount of at least $250,000 pursuant to Section 4202 of ERISA in respect of which the Borrower is reasonably expected to be liable;
(h) promptly after the Borrower becomes aware of the occurrence thereof, notice of all actions, suits, proceedings or other events of the type described in Section 7.01(f);
(i) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, notice to the Administrative Agent and each Lender of any sending or filing of all proxy statements, financial statements and reports which the Borrower sends to its public security holders (if any), all regular, periodic and special reports which the Borrower files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any governmental authority which may be substituted therefor, or with any national securities exchange, pursuant to the Exchange Act, and all final prospectuses with respect to any securities issued or to be issued by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
(j) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of any material default under any material agreement to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, which default would materially adversely affect the business, property, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, any of which is continuing on the date of such certificate, a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of such material default and the action which the Borrower or any such Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto; and
(k) promptly after requested, such other information respecting the business, properties, condition or operations, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as any Agent or the Required Lenders may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
The Borrower shall be deemed to have fulfilled its obligations pursuant to clauses (b), (c), (h) and (i) above to the extent the Administrative Agent (and the Lenders, if applicable) receives an electronic copy of the requisite document or documents in a format reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, that a tangible copy of each requisite document delivered electronically is made available by the Borrower promptly upon request by any Agent or Lender.
provided
. If any of the following events (each an "") shall occur and be continuing, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise the remedies set forth in Section 9.02:
SECTION 9.01. Events of Default
Event of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Loan when due, (ii) any reimbursement obligation under Section 4.04(a) within one (1) Business Day after such amount shall have become due or (iii) any interest, fees or other Obligations (other than any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation under Section 4.04(a)) payable hereunder within five (5) Business Days after such interest, fees or other amounts shall have become due; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by or on behalf of the Borrower in any Loan Document or certificate or other writing delivered pursuant thereto shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
(c) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to perform or observe any term or covenant on its part to be performed or observed contained in Section 8.01(c), (h), (i), (j) or (m) or in Section 8.02 (and the Borrower, each Lender and each Agent hereby agrees that an Event of Default under this subsection (c) shall be given effect as if the defaulting Subsidiary were a party to this Agreement); or
(d) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to perform or observe any other term or covenant on its part to be performed or observed contained in any Loan Document and any such failure shall remain unremedied, after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent, for a period of 20 Business Days (and the Borrower, each Lender and each Agent hereby agrees that an Event of Default under this subsection (d) shall be given effect as if the defaulting Subsidiary were a party to this Agreement); or
(e) The Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers shall fail to pay any of its Debt (including any interest or premium thereon but excluding Debt incurred under this Agreement) aggregating, in the case of the Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary, $25,000,000 or more or, in the case of Consumers, $50,000,000 or more, when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise) and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in any agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other default under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt (including any "amortization event" or event of like import in connection with any Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities), or any other event, shall occur and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such default or event is (i) to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment) prior to the stated maturity thereof; unless in each such case the obligee under or holder of such Debt shall have waived in writing such circumstance so that such circumstance is no longer continuing, or (ii) with respect to any such event occurring in connection with any Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities aggregating $25,000,000 or more, to terminate the reinvestment of collections or proceeds of receivables and related security under any agreements or instruments related thereto (other than a termination resulting solely from the request of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries); or
(f) (i) The Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (ii) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of a proceeding instituted against the Borrower, either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against the Borrower, a Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for the Borrower, such Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers or any of its property) shall occur; or (iii) the Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary or Consumers shall take any corporate or other action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (f); or
(g) Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $25,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or any of their respective properties and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
(h) Any material provision of any Loan Document, after execution hereof or delivery thereof under Article VI, shall for any reason other than the express terms hereof or thereof cease to be valid and binding on any party thereto; or the Borrower shall so assert in writing; or
(i) At any time, for any reason (except to the extent permitted by the terms of the Loan Documents or due to any failure by the Collateral Agent to take any action on its part to be performed under applicable law in order to maintain the perfection or priority of any such Liens), (i) the Liens intended to be created under any of the Loan Documents with respect to Collateral having a Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more become, or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeks to render such Liens, invalid or unperfected, or (ii) Liens in favor of the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Lenders contemplated by the Loan Documents with respect to Collateral having a Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more shall, at any time, for any reason, be invalidated or otherwise cease to be in full force and effect, or such Liens shall not have the priority contemplated by this Agreement or the Loan Documents.
. If any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, then the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent, as applicable, shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, upon notice to the Borrower (i) declare the Commitments and the obligation of each Lender to make or Convert Loans (other than Loans under Section 4.04) and of any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, (ii) declare the principal amount outstanding hereunder, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the principal amount outstanding hereunder, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower, (iii) make demand on the Borrower to pay, and the Borrower will be obligated to, upon such demand without any further notice or act, pay to the Administrative Agent the Cash Collateral Required Amount, which funds shall be deposited to the Cash Collateral Account as security for the LC Outstandings and (iv) exercise in respect of any and all Collateral, in addition to the other rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Lenders, all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the Uniform Commercial Code in effect in the State of New York and in effect in any other jurisdiction in which Collateral is located at that time; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code, (A) the Commitments and the obligation of each Lender to make or Convert Loans and of any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated, (B) the principal amount outstanding hereunder, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower, and (C) the Administrative Agent shall make demand on the Borrower to pay, and the Borrower shall be obligated to, upon such demand without any further notice or act, pay to the Administrative Agent the Cash Collateral Required Amount, which funds shall be deposited to the Cash Collateral Account as security for the LC Outstandings. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no notice given or declaration made by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall affect (i) the obligation of any Issuing Bank to make any payment under any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank in accordance with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (ii) the participatory interest of each Lender in each such payment. If at any time while any Event of Default is continuing, the Administrative Agent determines that the Cash Collateral Required Amount is greater than zero, the Administrative Agent may make demand on the Borrower to pay, and the Borrower will be obligated to, upon such demand without any further notice or act, pay to the Administrative Agent the Cash Collateral Required Amount, which funds shall be deposited to the Cash Collateral Account as security for the LC Outstandings.
SECTION 9.02. Remedies
provided
however
.
SECTION 10.01. Authorization and Action
(a) Each of the Lenders and each of the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints each Agent (other than the Syndication Agent and the Documentation Agents) as its agent and authorizes each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms of the Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
(b) Any Lender or Issuing Bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender or an Issuing Bank as any other Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder.
(c) No Agent shall have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth in the Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) no Agent shall be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, (ii) no Agent shall have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated by the Loan Documents that such Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 11.01), and (iii) except as expressly set forth in the Loan Documents, no Agent shall have any duty to disclose, or shall be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Lender serving as such Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. No Agent shall be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 11.01 or any other provision of this Agreement) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by the Borrower or a Lender (in which case such Agent shall promptly give a copy of such written notice to the Lenders and the other Agents). No Agent shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (A) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (B) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered thereunder or in connection therewith, (C) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in any Loan Document, (D) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (E) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article VI or elsewhere in any Loan Document, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to such Agent. Neither the Syndication Agent nor the Documentation Agents shall have any duties or obligations in such capacity under any of the Loan Documents.
(d) Each Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. Each Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. Each Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
(e) Each Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Each Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding subsections of this Section 10.01 shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of each Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as an Agent.
(f) Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Agent as provided in this subsection (f), any Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Agent which shall be a Lender with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such Lender. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as an Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After an Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 11.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as an Agent.
(g) Each Lender acknowledges that it has independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. Each Lender agrees (except as provided in Section 11.05) that it will not take any legal action, nor institute any actions or proceedings, against the Borrower or any other obligor hereunder or with respect to any Collateral, without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Lender may accelerate or otherwise enforce its portion of the Loans, or unilaterally terminate its Commitment except in accordance with Section 9.02.
(h) Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that neither such Lender, nor any of its Affiliates, participants or assignees, may rely on the Administrative Agent to carry out such Lender's, Affiliate's, participant's or assignee's customer identification program, or other obligations required or imposed under or pursuant to the USA Patriot Act or the regulations thereunder, including the regulations contained in 31 C.F.R. 103.121 (as hereafter amended or replaced, the ""), or any other applicable laws, rules, regulations or orders of any governmental authority, including any programs involving any of the following items relating to or in connection with any of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries, its Affiliates or their agents, the Loan Documents or the transactions hereunder or contemplated hereby: (a) any identity verification procedures, (b) any recordkeeping, (c) comparisons with government lists, (d) customer notices or (e) other procedures required under the CIP Regulations or such other laws, rules, regulations or orders.
CIP Regulations
(i) Within 10 days after the Closing Date and at such other times as are required under the USA Patriot Act, each Lender and each of its assignees and participants that are not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (and is not excepted from the certification requirement contained in Section 313 of the USA Patriot Act and the applicable regulations because it is both (a) an affiliate of a depository institution or foreign bank that maintains a physical presence in the United States or foreign country, and (b) subject to supervision by a banking authority regulating such affiliated depository institution or foreign bank) shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the certification, or, if applicable, recertification, certifying that such Lender is not a "shell" and certifying to other matters as required by Section 313 of the USA Patriot Act and the applicable regulations.
. The Lenders agree to indemnify each Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective Percentages of the Lenders, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from such Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agents and the Arrangers promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agents and the Arrangers in connection with the preparation, syndication, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement to the extent that the Agents and the Arrangers are entitled to reimbursement for such expenses pursuant to Section 11.04 but are not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.
SECTION 10.02. Indemnification
provided
.
SECTION 10.03. Concerning the Collateral and the Loan Documents
(a) Each Lender and Issuing Bank authorizes and directs the Collateral Agent to enter into the Loan Documents relating to the Collateral for the benefit of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks. Each Lender and Issuing Bank agrees that any action taken by any Agent or the Required Lenders (or, where required by the express terms of this Agreement, a greater proportion of the Lenders) in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, and the exercise by any Agent or the Required Lenders (or, where so required, such greater proportion) of the powers set forth herein or therein, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto, shall be authorized and binding upon all of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Collateral Agent shall have the sole and exclusive right and authority to (i) act as the disbursing and collecting agent for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks with respect to all payments and collections arising in connection with this Agreement and the Loan Documents relating to the Collateral; (ii) execute and deliver each Loan Document relating to the Collateral and accept delivery of each such agreement delivered by the Borrower, including any intercreditor agreement referenced in Section 8.02(a)(xiii); (iii) act as collateral agent for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks for purposes of the perfection of all Liens created by such agreements and all other purposes stated therein; , , the Collateral Agent hereby appoints, authorizes and directs the other Agents, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks to act as collateral sub-agent for the Collateral Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks for purposes of the perfection of all Liens with respect to any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries at any time in the possession of such Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, including, without limitation, deposit accounts maintained with, and cash held by, such Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank; (iv) manage, supervise and otherwise deal with the Collateral; (v) take such action as is necessary or desirable to maintain the perfection and priority of the Liens created or purported to be created by the Loan Documents; and (vi) except as may be otherwise specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, exercise all remedies given to the Collateral Agent, the Lenders or the Issuing Banks with respect to the Collateral under the Loan Documents relating thereto, applicable law or otherwise.
provided
however
(b) The Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby directs, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Collateral Agent to release any Lien held by the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks:
(i) against all of the Collateral, upon payment in full of the Obligations under the Loan Documents and termination of this Agreement;
(ii) against all of the Collateral (other than the "Collateral" under (and as defined in) the Cash Collateral Agreement), upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.01(n)(ii);
(iii) against any part of the Collateral sold or disposed of by the Borrower, if such sale or disposition is otherwise permitted under this Agreement, as certified to the Collateral Agent by the Borrower, or is otherwise consented to by the Required Lenders;
(iv) against any part of the "Collateral" (as defined in the Cash Collateral Agreement) to the extent required pursuant to the Cash Collateral Agreement; and/or
(v) against any of the Collateral upon the occurrence of any event described in Section 8.10 of the Borrower Pledge Agreement.
The Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby directs the Collateral Agent to execute and deliver or file such termination and partial release statements and do such other things as are necessary to release Liens to be released pursuant to this Section 10.03(b) promptly upon the effectiveness of any such release.
(c) Each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby directs the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent to, upon the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6.01, (i) release the Guarantors (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) from, and terminate, the Guaranty (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement), (ii) release Enterprises and the Grantors (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) from, release all Liens granted pursuant to and terminate the Subsidiary Pledge Agreement (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) and (iii) release any Lien held by the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks in any assets of the Borrower other than the capital stock of Consumers and related property pledged by the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower Pledge Agreement.
No amendment or waiver of any provision of any Loan Document, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (i) waive, modify or eliminate any of the conditions specified in Article VI, (ii) increase the Commitments of the Lenders that may be maintained hereunder (other than pursuant to Section 2.03(d)), (iii) reduce or forgive the principal of, or interest on, any Loan, the commitment fee payable pursuant to Section 2.02(a) or other any fees or other amounts payable hereunder (other than fees payable to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.02(b)), (iv) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, any Loan or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder (other than fees payable to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.02(b)) (except with respect to any modifications of the provisions relating to amounts, timing or application of prepayments of Loans and other Obligations which modification shall require only the approval of the Required Lenders), (v) change the definition of "" contained in Section 1.01 or change any other provision that specifies the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans or the number of Lenders which shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (vi) amend, waive or modify Section 2.03(b) or this Section 11.01, (vii) release the Collateral Agent's Lien on all of the Collateral or any portion of the Collateral in excess of $50,000,000 (except as provided in Section 10.03(b)), (viii) extend the Commitment Termination Date or the Maturity Date, (ix) amend, waive or modify any provision of Section 5.01(g), 5.05 or 5.07 that provides for or ensures ratable distributions to the Lenders or (x) amend, waive or modify any provision of Section 4.02 that requires each Letter of Credit to have a stated expiry date no later than five (5) Business Days (or, in the case of any commercial Letter of Credit, thirty (30) Business Days) prior to the Commitment Termination Date; and , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each affected Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of any Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Issuing Bank in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of any Issuing Bank under this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Any request from the Borrower for any amendment, waiver or consent under this Section 11.01 shall be addressed to the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 11.01. Amendments, Etc.
provided
however
Required Lenders
provided
further
provided
further
Subject to Section 11.14, all notices and other communications provided for hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall be in writing and mailed, sent by courier service, telecopied or delivered, (i) if to Borrower, at its address at One Energy Plaza, Jackson, Michigan 49201, Attention: James E. Brunner, General Counsel, with a copy to Laura L. Mountcastle, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer, One Energy Plaza, Jackson, Michigan 49201; (ii) if to any Bank, at the address set forth on the signature page hereto with respect to such Bank; (iii) if to any Issuing Bank, at its address specified in the Issuing Bank Agreement to which it is a party; (iv) if to any Lender other than a Bank, at its Applicable Lending Office specified in the Lender Assignment or Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; (v) if to the Administrative Agent with respect to funding or payment of any amounts hereunder, at its address at 2 Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, DE 19270, Attn: Dawn Conover, Telephone No. (302) 894-6063, Telecopy No. (302) 894-6120; (vi) if to the Administrative Agent for any other reason or to the Collateral Agent, at its address at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10003, Attn: Nick McKee, Telephone No. (212) 816-8592, Telecopy No. (212) 816-8098; or, as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties. Each such notice or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by telecopy transmission, when transmitted to the telecopy number specified in this Section 11.02 and confirmation of receipt is received, (ii) if given by mail, 5 days after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, or (iii) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 11.02, except that notices and communications to any Agent pursuant to Article II, III, or X shall not be effective until received by such Agent.
SECTION 11.02. Notices, Etc.
. No failure on the part of the Borrower, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
SECTION 11.03. No Waiver of Remedies
.
SECTION 11.04. Costs, Expenses and Indemnification
(a) The Borrower agrees to (i) reimburse on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of each Agent and each Arranger (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Agents) in connection with (A) the preparation, syndication, negotiation, execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and (B) the care and custody of any and all collateral, and any proposed modification, amendment, or consent relating to any Loan Document, and (ii) to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of each Agent and, on and after the date upon which the principal amount outstanding hereunder becomes or is declared to be due and payable pursuant to Section 9.02 or an Event of Default specified in Section 9.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender (including fees and expenses of counsel to the Agents, special Michigan counsel to the Lenders and, from and after such date, counsel for each Lender (including the allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel)) in connection with the workout, restructuring or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Agent, each Arranger, each Issuing Bank, each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnified Person harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnified Person, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Person arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Loan Document or any other agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties to the Loan Documents of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any Loan or other Extension of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of any Hazardous Substance on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (iv) the use of the Platform as contemplated herein, or (v) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnified Person is a party thereto; , that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnified Person, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person. The Borrower shall pay any civil penalty or fine assessed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control against any Indemnified Person and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to such Indemnified Persons) incurred in connection with defense thereof, as a result of acts or omissions of the Borrower contrary to the representation made in Section 7.01(t).
Indemnified Person
provided
(c) The Borrower's other obligations under this Section 11.04 shall survive the repayment of all amounts owing to the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Agents under the Loan Documents and the termination of the Commitments. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this Section 11.04 are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law.
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and the Borrower hereby waives, any claim against each Lender, each Agent and their respective Affiliates, directors, employees, attorneys, agents or sub-agents, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) (whether or not the claim therefor is based on contract, tort or duty imposed by any applicable legal requirement) arising out of, in connection with, arising out of, as a result of, or in any way related to, this Agreement or any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby or referred to herein or therein, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Borrowing or the use of the proceeds thereof or any act or omission or event occurring in connection therewith, and the Borrower hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue upon any such claim or any such damages, whether or not accrued and whether or not known or suspected to exist in its favor.
.
SECTION 11.05. Right of Set-off
(a) Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 9.02 to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the principal amount outstanding hereunder to be due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.02, each Lender and Issuing Bank is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower, against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Promissory Notes held by such Lender or the Issuing Bank Agreement to which such Issuing Bank is a party, as the case may be, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Promissory Notes or such Issuing Bank Agreement, as the case may be, and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender and Issuing Bank agrees to notify promptly the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and Issuing Bank under this Section 11.05 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) which such Lender and Issuing Bank may have.
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees that it shall have no right of off-set, deduction or counterclaim in respect of its obligations hereunder, and that the obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint. Nothing contained herein shall constitute a relinquishment or waiver of the Borrower's rights to any independent claim that the Borrower may have against any Agent or any Lender for such Agent's or such Lender's, as the case may be, gross negligence or willful misconduct, but no Lender shall be liable for any such conduct on the part of any Agent or any other Lender, and no Agent shall be liable for any such conduct on the part of any Lender or any other Agent.
. This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agents and when the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agents and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that, the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lenders.
SECTION 11.06. Binding Effect
.
SECTION 11.07. Assignments and Participation
(a) Any Lender may sell participations in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to subsection (b) below and any Lender may assign all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to subsection (c) below.
(b) Any Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (each a "") in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment and its outstanding Loan), provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of the Loans of such Lender for all purposes of this Agreement and (iv) the Borrower shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Loan or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest which would require consent of all of the Lenders pursuant to the terms of Section 11.01 or of any other Loan Document. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be deemed to have the right of set-off provided in Section 11.05 in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under the Loan Documents, provided that each Lender shall retain the right of set-off provided in Section 11.05 with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each Participant. The Lenders agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of set-off provided in Section 11.05, agrees to share with each Lender, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of set-off, such amounts to be shared in accordance with Section 11.05 as if each Participant were a Lender. The Borrower further agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 5.04 and 5.06 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to Section 11.07(c); provided that (i) a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 5.04 or 5.06 than the Lender who sold the participating interest to such Participant would have received had it retained such interest for its own account, unless the sale of such interest to such Participant is made with the prior written consent of the Borrower, and (ii) any Participant not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof agrees to comply with the provisions of Section 5.06 to the same extent as if it were a Lender.
Participant
(c) Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, with the consent of the Administrative Agent and each Issuing Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), at any time assign to any other Lender or to any Eligible Bank all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, , that the aggregate of the Commitments and the principal amount the Loans subject to any such assignment (other than assignments to a Federal Reserve Bank, or to any other Lender, or to any direct or indirect contractual counterparties in swap agreements relating to the Loans to the extent required in connection with the physical settlement of any Lender's obligations pursuant thereto) shall be $5,000,000 (or such lesser amount consented to by the Administrative Agent); , that, unless such Lender is assigning all of its rights and obligations hereunder, after giving effect to such assignment the assigning Lender shall have Commitments and Loans in the aggregate of not less than $5,000,000 (unless otherwise consented to by the Administrative Agent).
provided
provided
(d) Any Lender may, in connection with any sale or participation or proposed sale or participation pursuant to this Section 11.07 disclose to the purchaser or Participant or proposed purchaser or Participant any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower, provided that prior to any such disclosure of non-public information, the purchaser or Participant or proposed purchaser or Participant (which Participant is not an affiliate of a Lender) shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information (except any such disclosure as may be required by law or regulatory process) relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender.
(e) Assignments under this Section 11.07 shall be made pursuant to an agreement (a "") substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto or in such other form as may be agreed to by the parties thereto and shall not be effective until a $3,500 fee has been paid to the Administrative Agent by the assignee, which fee shall cover the cost of processing such assignment, provided, that such fee shall not be incurred in the event of an assignment by any Lender of all or a portion of its rights under this Agreement to (i) a Federal Reserve Bank, (ii) a Lender (iii) an affiliate of the assigning Lender (which affiliate shall be an Eligible Bank) or (iv) to any direct or indirect contractual counterparties in swap agreements relating to the Loans to the extent required in connection with the physical settlement of any Lender's obligations pursuant thereto.
Lender Assignment
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender is obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement; provided that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to make any Loan, (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall remain obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not be required to pay any amount under Section 5.06 that is greater than the amount which it would have been required to pay had there been no grant to an SPC and (iv) any SPC (or assignee of an SPC) will comply, if applicable, with the provisions contained in Section 5.06. No grant by any Granting Lender to an SPC agreeing to provide a Loan or the making of such Loan by such SPC shall operate to relieve such Granting Lender of its liabilities and obligations hereunder, except to the extent of the making of such Loan by such SPC. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender). In addition, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPC to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to the Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC. This Section 11.07(f) may not be amended without the written consent of any SPC that holds an option to provide Loans. No recourse under any obligation, covenant, or agreement of the SPC contained in this Agreement shall be had against any shareholder, officer, agent or director of the SPC as such, by the enforcement of any assessment or by any proceeding, by virtue of any statute or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Agreement is a corporate obligation of the SPC and no personal liability shall attach to or be incurred by any officer, agent or member of the SPC as such, or any of them under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements of the SPC contained in this Agreement, or implied therefrom, and that any and all personal liability for breaches by the SPC of any such obligations, covenants or agreements, either at law or by statute or constitution, of every such shareholder, officer, agent or director is hereby expressly waived by all parties to this Agreement as a condition of and consideration for the SPC entering into this Agreement; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not relieve any such person or entity of any liability they might otherwise have as a result of fraudulent actions or omissions taken by them. All parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree that the SPC shall only be liable for any claims that each of them may have against the SPC only to the extent of the SPC's assets. The provisions of this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Granting Lender
SPC
(g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; , that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(h) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 11.02 a copy of each Lender Assignment and each Assumption and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agents, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, any Issuing Bank or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
. In connection with the negotiation and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the Borrower has furnished and will from time to time furnish to the Agents, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders (each, a "") written information which is identified to the Recipient when delivered as confidential (such information, other than any such information which (i) was publicly available, or otherwise known to the Recipient, at the time of disclosure, (ii) subsequently becomes publicly available other than through any act or omission by the Recipient or (iii) otherwise subsequently becomes known to the Recipient other than through a Person whom the Recipient knows to be acting in violation of his or its obligations to the Borrower, being hereinafter referred to as ""). The Recipient will not knowingly disclose any such Confidential Information to any third party (other than to those persons who have a confidential relationship with the Recipient), and will take all reasonable steps to restrict access to such information in a manner designed to maintain the confidential nature of such information, in each case until such time as the same ceases to be Confidential Information or as the Borrower may otherwise instruct. It is understood, however, that the foregoing will not restrict the Recipient's ability to freely exchange such Confidential Information with its Affiliates, prospective Participants in or assignees of the Recipient's position herein or direct or indirect counterparties (or their advisors) to any swap, securitization or derivative transaction relating to the Obligations, but the Recipient's ability to so exchange Confidential Information shall be conditioned upon any such Person entering into an agreement as to confidentiality similar to this Section 11.08. It is further understood that the foregoing will not prohibit the disclosure of any or all Confidential Information if and to the extent that such disclosure may be required (1) by a regulatory agency, self-regulatory body or otherwise in connection with an examination of the Recipient's records by appropriate authorities, (2) pursuant to court order, subpoena or other legal process or in connection with any proceeding, suit or other action relating to any Loan Document or (3) otherwise, as required by law; in the event of any required disclosure under clause (2) or (3), above, the Recipient agrees to use reasonable efforts to inform the Borrower as promptly as practicable to the extent not prohibited by law. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each party (and each Participant pursuant to Section 11.07) (and each employee, representative or other agent of such party (or Participant)) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to such party relating to such U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure, other than any information for which nondisclosure is reasonably necessary in order to comply with applicable securities laws.
SECTION 11.08. Confidentiality
Recipient
Confidential Information
. THE BORROWER, THE AGENTS, THE ISSUING BANKS AND THE LENDERS EACH HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR ANY OTHER INSTRUMENT OR DOCUMENT DELIVERED HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER.
SECTION 11.09.
Waiver of Jury Trial
. THIS AGREEMENT AND THE PROMISSORY NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES). THE BORROWER, THE LENDERS, THE ISSUING BANKS AND THE AGENTS, EACH (I) IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY NEW YORK STATE COURT OR FEDERAL COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK CITY IN ANY ACTION ARISING OUT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, (II) AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN SUCH ACTION MAY BE DECIDED IN SUCH COURT, (III) WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IT MAY EFFECTIVELY DO SO, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM AND (IV) CONSENTS TO THE SERVICE OF PROCESS BY MAIL. A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO SERVE LEGAL PROCESS IN ANY MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR AFFECT ITS RIGHT TO BRING ANY ACTION IN ANY OTHER COURT. THE BORROWER AGREES THAT THE AGENTS SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROCEED AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTY IN A COURT IN ANY LOCATION TO ENABLE THE AGENTS, THE ISSUING BANKS AND THE LENDERS TO REALIZE ON THE COLLATERAL OR ANY OTHER SECURITY FOR THE OBLIGATIONS, OR TO ENFORCE A JUDGMENT OR OTHER COURT ORDER ENTERED IN FAVOR OF ANY AGENT, ANY ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER. THE BORROWER AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT ASSERT ANY PERMISSIVE COUNTERCLAIMS IN ANY PROCEEDING BROUGHT BY ANY AGENT, ANY ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER TO REALIZE ON THE COLLATERAL OR ANY OTHER SECURITY FOR THE OBLIGATIONS, OR TO ENFORCE A JUDGMENT OR OTHER COURT ORDER IN FAVOR OF ANY AGENT, ANY ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER. THE BORROWER WAIVES ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY HAVE TO THE LOCATION OF THE COURT IN WHICH ANY AGENT, ANY ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER MAY COMMENCE A PROCEEDING DESCRIBED IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 11.10. GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
. No term, provision or requirement, whether express or implied, of any Loan Document, or actions taken or to be taken by any party thereunder, shall be construed to create a partnership, association, or joint venture between such parties or any of them. No term or provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be construed to confer a benefit upon, or grant a right or privilege to, any Person other than the parties hereto or thereto. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that none of the Agents, the Lenders or the Issuing Banks has any fiduciary relationship with or fiduciary duty to the Borrower arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, and the relationship between the Agents, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor.
SECTION 11.11. Relation of the Parties; No Beneficiary
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
SECTION 11.12. Execution in Counterparts
.
. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made herein and in the certificates pursuant hereto shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Agents, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks and shall survive the making by the Lenders and the Issuing Banks of the Extensions of Credit and the execution and delivery to the Lenders of any Promissory Notes evidencing the Extensions of Credit and shall continue in full force and effect so long as any Promissory Note or any amount due hereunder is outstanding and unpaid, any Letter of Credit remains outstanding or any Commitment of any Lender has not been terminated.
SECTION 11.13. Survival of Agreement
.
SECTION 11.14. Platform
(a) The Borrower shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to transmit to the Administrative Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (i) relates to a notice of borrowing or other extension of credit or a conversion of an existing interest rate on any Loan or Borrowing (including, without limitation, any Notice of Conversion), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due hereunder prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides notice of any Default or Event of Default hereunder or (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any Extension of Credit hereunder (all such non-excluded communications being referred to herein collectively as ""), in an electronic/soft medium in a format reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent to (or such other e-mail address designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time). In addition, the Borrower shall continue to provide the Communications to the Administrative Agent in the manner specified in this Agreement but only to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent. Each Lender, each Issuing Bank and the Borrower further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks by posting the Communications on IntraLinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the ""); , , that upon written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, any Lender or any Issuing Bank (such lender a "") may decline to receive Communications via the Platform and shall direct the Borrower to provide, and the Borrower shall so provide, such Communications to such Declining Lender by delivery to such Declining Lender's address set forth on the signature pages hereto, or as specified in the Lender Assignment or Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender or as otherwise directed in such notice. Subject to the conditions set forth in the proviso in the immediately preceding sentence, nothing in this Section 11.14 shall prejudice the right of the Administrative Agent to make the Communications available to the Lenders in any other manner specified herein.
Communications
oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com
Platform
provided
however
Declining Lender
(b) Each Lender and Issuing Bank (other than a Declining Lender) agrees that e-mail notice to it (at the address provided pursuant to the next sentence and deemed delivered as provided in the next paragraph) specifying that Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communications to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender and Issuing Bank (other than a Declining Lender) agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
(c) Each party hereto (other than a Declining Lender) agrees that any electronic communication referred to in this Section 11.14 shall be deemed delivered upon the posting of a record of such communication as "sent" in the e-mail system of the sending party or, in the case of any such communication to the Administrative Agent, upon the posting of a record of such communication as "received" in the e-mail system of the Administrative Agent, provided that if such communication is not so received by the Administrative Agent during the normal business hours of the Administrative Agent, such communication shall be deemed delivered at the opening of business on the next business day for the Administrative Agent.
(d) Each party hereto acknowledges that the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution.
(e) EACH PARTY HERETO FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT:
(i) NONE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ITS AFFILIATES NOR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, ADVISORS OR REPRESENTATIVES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "CITIGROUP PARTIES") WARRANTS THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM OR THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY COMMUNICATIONS, AND EACH CITIGROUP PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY COMMUNICATIONS, AND
(ii) NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY CITIGROUP PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH ANY COMMUNICATIONS OR THE PLATFORM.
(f) This Section 11.14 shall terminate on the date that neither CUSA nor any of the Citigroup Parties is the Administrative Agent under this Agreement.
Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to requirements of the USA Patriot Act , it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
SECTION 11.15. USA Patriot Act.
. It is the express intent of the parties hereto that this Agreement (i) shall re-evidence, in part, the Borrower's indebtedness under the Existing Credit Agreement, (ii) is entered into in substitution for, and not in payment of, the obligations of the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement, and (iii) is in no way intended to constitute a novation of any of the Borrower's indebtedness which was evidenced by the Existing Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.
SECTION 12.01. No Novation
. Upon the effectiveness of this Agreement, on and after the date hereof, each reference in any other Loan Document to the Existing Credit Agreement (including any reference therein to "the Credit Agreement," "thereunder," "thereof," "therein" or words of like import referring thereto) means and be a reference to this Agreement.
SECTION 12.02. References to This Agreement In Loan Documents
. Each of the parties hereto agrees that, upon the effectiveness of this Agreement (including the satisfaction of the condition precedent set forth in Section 6.01(f)), Enterprises shall be released from all of its obligations as a "Borrower" under (and as defined in) the Existing Credit Agreement.
SECTION 12.03. Release of Enterprises


