FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20070201164255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 31, 2007, CMS Enterprises Company ("Enterprises"), a wholly owned subsidiary of CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") signed a binding letter of intent ("LOI") with Lucid Energy LLC ("Lucid"). The LOI provides that Enterprises will sell substantially all of its Argentine assets and its northern Michigan non-utility gas gathering, processing and pipeline businesses for $180 million to Lucid, whose financial partners include Sociedad Argentina de Energia S.A., an Argentine company. The proposed sale, subject to negotiation and execution of a definitive purchase and sale agreement, is expected to close in the first half of 2007. See the News Release dated February 1, 2007, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 for additional information. The LOI provides Lucid an exclusivity period for negotiation through March 15, 2007. Lucid and Enterprises agree in the LOI that a definitive purchase and sale agreement will contain a number of customary representations and warranties and closing conditions fo und in similar transactions, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Acts of 1976. The LOI also provides that under the definitive purchase and sale agreement Enterprises liability for breaches of representation and warranties will be capped at the amount of $25 million for those relating to the Argentine assets and $5 million for those relating to the Michigan businesses. The LOI will terminate upon the earlier of March 15, 2007 or the date upon which the parties determine that they will be unable to agree upon the terms of a definitive purchase and sale agreement. A copy of the LOI is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 CMS Energys News Release dated February 1, 2007. 99.2 Letter of Intent dated January 31, 2007 between CMS Enterprises Company and Lucid Energy LLC.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS each found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energys Form 10-K/A and Consumers Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and as updated in CMS Energys and Consumers subsequently filed Forms 10-Q (CMS Energys and Consumers FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections are incorporated herein by reference), that discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energys and Consumers results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

JACKSON, Mich., Feb. 1, 2007  CMS Energy announced today that it has signed a binding letter of intent to sell a portfolio of its businesses in Argentina and its northern Michigan non-utility natural gas assets for $180 million.
A principal subsidiary of CMS Energy, CMS Enterprises, signed the binding letter of intent with the Michigan-based Lucid Energy, whose financial partners include Sociedad Argentina de Energia S.A., (Sadesa) an Argentine company.
The proposed sale, subject to negotiation and execution of a definitive purchase-sale agreement, is expected to close in the first half of 2007. Proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce debt and invest in CMS Energy's utility, Consumers Energy.
The assets being sold include all of CMS Enterprises' electric generating plant interests in Argentina (CT Mendoza, Ensenada, El Chocon), and its interest in the TGM natural gas pipeline business in Argentina. CMS Enterprises will maintain its interest in the TGN natural gas business in Argentina, which remains subject to a potential sale to the government of Argentina.
In Michigan, the sale includes CMS Enterprises' natural gas pipelines and processing assets: the Antrim natural gas processing plant, 155 miles of associated gathering lines, and interests in three special purpose gas transmission pipelines that total 110 miles.
CMS Energy also announced today it plans to conduct an auction to sell a second portfolio of assets: its Atacama combined gas pipeline and power generation businesses in Argentina and Chile, its electric generating plant in Jamaica, and its CPEE electric distribution business in Brazil. The sale of those businesses is expected to be completed by the end of 2007.
The company had announced its plan last year to sell a majority of its interest in CPEE through a planned initial public offering in Brazil, and will retain that as an option, pending the indications from the auction
CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) is a Michigan-based company that has as its primary business operations an electric and natural gas utility, natural gas pipeline systems, and independent power generation.
For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our web site at: www.cmsenergy.com
Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395
Investment Analyst Contact: CMS Energy Investor Relations, 517/788-2590

Exhibit 99.2
January 31, 2007
Thomas J. Webb Chief Financial Officer CMS Enterprises Company One Energy Plaza Jackson, Michigan 49201
Dear Mr. Webb:
Lucid Energy, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company, for itself and its affiliates and assigns ("Lucid" or "Buyer") and CMS Enterprises Company, a Michigan corporation, for itself and its affiliates and assigns ("CMS" or "Seller") enter into this binding letter agreement ("Letter Agreement" or "Agreement") wherein Buyer offers to purchase from CMS certain Michigan-based natural gas transmission, storage and processing businesses (the "Michigan Businesses") as well as Argentina-based natural gas transmission and marketing and independent power production businesses (the "Argentine Businesses" and together with the Michigan Businesses, the "Businesses"), as well as certain related rights and options. Buyer understands that the ownership interests in the Businesses are held by a variety of separate entities and it is Buyer's intention to acquire 100% of the capital stock or membership interests held by CMS in these entities (the "Entities") as more specifically described in Annex I hereto.
CMS and Buyer agree that promptly following execution of this Letter Agreement, the representatives of the parties shall proceed expeditiously and in good faith with the intent that CMS shall sell and Buyer shall purchase the Entities based on the following actions, forbearances, terms and conditions:
The purchase and sale shall be subject to satisfactory negotiation of a definitive purchase and sale agreement (the "Purchase and Sale Agreement" or "PSA"). As soon as practicable after this Letter Agreement is signed by both parties, CMS shall deliver to Buyer a draft PSA and the parties shall negotiate in good faith to finalize its terms. CMS anticipates that Buyer will effect the acquisition of the Argentine Businesses through a newly formed corporation or limited liability company organized under the laws of one of the U.S. states. The PSA shall provide for, but not be limited to, certain terms and conditions discussed by representatives of CMS, Buyer and Buyer's financial partner Sociedad Argentina de Energia S.A., subject to the parties negotiation of the definitive terms thereof. If a mutually satisfactory PSA cannot be negotiated prior to the termination of this Letter Agreement, neither party shall have any further rights or expectations from the other.
1. 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
.
In consideration of Buyer having devoted and continuing to devote significant time and resources toward pursuing the acquisition of the Entities (the "Acquisition"), CMS agrees that, between the date of CMS' execution of this Letter Agreement and the later of the signing of the Purchase and Sale Agreement or 11:59 p.m. E.T. on March 15, 2007 (the "Exclusivity Period"), it will (i) not solicit any Acquisition Proposal from any other party; (ii) not engage in negotiations, or enter into any agreement, with a party in regard to any other Acquisition Proposal submitted to CMS by or in behalf of such other party; and (iii) negotiate exclusively only with Buyer with respect to the Acquisition. "Acquisition Proposal" means any offer or proposal for the purchase of any or all of the Entities by way of purchase of all or substantially all of either their capital stock (or equivalent equity interests) or their material assets in any form, whether by direct purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise.
2. 
No Shopping
.
The Acquisition shall be effective for financial statement purposes January 1, 2007 ("Effective Date"), such that the aggregate balance sheet of the Entities as acquired at Closing (as defined in paragraph 5 below) will include the balance sheets of all the Entities as of commencement of business on January 1, 2007, plus all operating results that accrue or arise thereafter, subject to such interim adjustments as have been discussed or may be agreed to by the parties
3. 
Effective Date
.
.
Buyer shall pay CMS a cash purchase price of U.S. $180,000,000 (one hundred and eighty million dollars ) at Closing for the Entities, subject to adjustment in the event all of the Hidroinvest/El Chocon direct or indirect rights of first offer are exercised by any of CMS' partners in such Entities,in the exact amount of the price payable to CMS.In addition, Buyer shall assume that certain note payable in the current approximate amount of U.S. $12.3 million as more specifically described in Annex II hereto. The other intercompany notes reflected on Annex II shall be assigned or cancelled prior to Closing as described therein. Buyer has provided CMS with certain letters from banks and financial institutions evidencing the availability of the cash purchase price for Closing the Acquisition.
4. 
Purchase Price
.
Subject to the terms and conditions in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, closing of the Acquisition ("Closing") shall take place at the offices of Seller or its counsel as soon as reasonably practicable after fulfillment of all conditions to Closing.
5. 
Closing
.
. The Closing under the Purchase and Sale Agreement will be conditioned upon the following and such additional terms and conditions as are customary in transactions of this nature:
6. 
Conditions
A. . Each of the Businesses will be conducted by CMS until Closing in the ordinary course in the same manner as it has been operated prior to the execution of this Letter Agreement, provided that, among others, CMS shall permit no payments of dividends, redemptions of capital stock or other equity interests, settlements of insurance claims or lawsuits, transfers of assets of any kind from any of the Entities to any CMS affiliate that is not one of the Entities, other than as have been discussed or may be agreed to by the parties.
Conduct of Businesses Prior to Closing
B. . CMS shall make certain special representations and warranties relating to the existence on January 1, 2007, of cash for the Argentine Businesses in an amount equal to approximately U.S. $50 million, in addition to the representations and warranties that are customary in transactions of this nature.
Representations and Warranties
C. . The parties shall have made, obtained or waived, as applicable, all notices, consents, permits and authorizations required from any third parties and shall have made an appropriate filing under the U.S. Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and applicable waiting periods shall have expired or been terminated or such approvals shall have been received.
Notices, Consents, etc
D. . Seller shall cooperate with Buyer in connection with obtaining all required approvals, permits and licenses or transfers and giving all required notices.
Cooperation
E. . CMS represents that it has obtained approval of CMS Energy Corporation's Board of Directors to enter into this Letter Agreement. The final PSA between the parties shall be subject to approval by the appropriate Boards of Directors of CMS, the Buyer and their affiliates.
Board Approval
F. . Employees of the Entities are of significant importance to the Buyer and the success of the Businesses. CMS and Buyer agree to use their best efforts to arrive at a satisfactory arrangement regarding smooth transition of the employees.
Employees of the Businesses
G. . With certain exceptions (such as title with respect to ownership interests beingtransferred and authority representations), Seller's liability for breaches of the PSA's representations and warranties shall be capped at the amount of U.S. $25 million for those provisions relating to the Argentine Businesses and U.S. $5 million for those provisions relating to the Michigan Businesses, and certain special
Indemnifications
indemnifications discussed by the parties are agreed to fall within these capped amounts.
Closing shall occur within five (5) business days of the receipt of all required notices, consents and governmental approvals, unless the parties agree otherwise. At the Closing, Buyer will deliver the Purchase Price and Seller will deliver all instruments of transfer, books and records and other documentation demonstrating authority to close and the truth and correctness of all representations and warranties and other documentation customary in transactions of this kind.
7. 
Closing Documents
.
This Agreement is binding on both parties subject to terms and conditions contained herein. The parties intend to be bound to exercise all good faith efforts in completing and satisfying the actions, forbearance, terms and conditions of this Letter Agreement, including without limitation the expeditious negotiation and execution of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Closing of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms thereof.
8. 
Binding Effect; Intentions
.
Expenses incurred in connection with or related to the proposed Acquisition shall be paid by each respective party that incurred such expenses.
9. 
Expenses
.
. This Letter Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of (a) the end of the Exclusivity Period and (b) the date on which the parties hereto mutually determine that they will be unable to agree upon the definitive terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
10. 
Termination
The provisions of this Letter Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Michigan. Disputes regarding this Letter Agreement, shall be resolved by arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce in Detroit, Michigan. Judgment may be entered upon an award by any court of appropriate jurisdiction. This Letter Agreement may be signed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Letter Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto, superseding all prior agreements between said parties whether written or oral, pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may not be amended or otherwise altered except by written agreement between the parties.
11. 
Miscellaneous
.
If this letter meets your approval, please sign a copy of it as provided below.
Sincerely,
Lucid Energy, LLC (Buyer)
The foregoing Letter is approved and agreed to:
CMS Enterprises Company (Seller)
By Thomas J. Webb, Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Thomas J. Webb
Date signed: 31st day of January, 2007
A.
Argentine Businesses
B. 
Michigan Businesses
A. 
Argentine Businesses
(ii) the US$3,150,000 loan from CMS Enterprises to CMS Ensenada;
Amounts set forth in this Annex II reflect outstanding principal and interest as of January 1, 2007.
1
This loan may be capitalized prior to acquisition of Argentine Interests. All equity interests issued in connection with such capitalization shall be sold to Buyers and will be considered Equity Participation Interests hereunder (without any increase in the Purchase Price).
2
The loans listed under Michigan Business will be cancelled.
3


