FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20080505084337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 5, 2008, CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") issued a News Release, in which it announced its results for the first quarter of 2008 and reaffirmed its guidance for 2008 adjusted earnings. Attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of the CMS Energy News Release, furnished as a part of this report.
(d) Exhibits.
This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" each found in the MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energy's Form 10-K and Consumers' Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2007. CMS Energy's and Consumers' "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" sections are incorporated herein by reference and discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energy's and Consumers' results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99
     JACKSON, Mich., May 5, 2008  CMS Energy announced today reported net income of $103 million, or $0.44 per share, for the first quarter of 2008, compared to a reported net loss of $215 million, or $0.97 per share, in the same quarter of 2007.
     In the first quarter of 2007, the company was engaged in selling its international businesses and that resulted in a charge of $307 million, or $1.39 per share, that was not repeated in the first quarter of 2008.
     CMS Energy's first quarter adjusted (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) results, which exclude the effects of asset sales and certain other items, also were $103 million, or $0.44 per share, consistent with the company's plan. In the first quarter of 2007, the company had adjusted net income of $92 million, or $0.42 per share, primarily excluding asset sale related charges.
     CMS Energy reaffirmed its guidance for 2008 adjusted earnings of $1.20 per share. While the company expects 2008 reported earnings to be about the same as its adjusted earnings, reported earnings could vary because of gains or charges relating to previously sold assets or other factors.
     David Joos, the president and chief executive officer of CMS Energy, said the company's solid first quarter results reflect the company's strategy to exit the international markets, reduce parent company debt, and invest substantially in Consumers Energy.
     "We are pleased with our progress and will continue to implement our Growing Forward' strategy. Our plan is to invest more than $6 billion over the next five years in energy efficiency, renewable energy, environmental and customer service enhancements, and new power generation," Joos said.
     He added that Michigan needed comprehensive energy policy reform to allow the company to fully implement its Growing Forward plan.
 
     "The state House recently approved a wide-ranging package of legislation that would support the energy infrastructure investments needed to keep power prices affordable and help ensure reliable supplies of energy for Michigan customers. There's still work to be done, but we're encouraged with the progress that has been made."
     CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) is a Michigan-based company that has an electric and natural gas utility, Consumers Energy, as its primary business and also owns and operates independent power generation businesses.
CMS Energy provides financial results on both a reported (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) and adjusted (non-GAAP) basis. Management views adjusted earnings as a key measure of the company's present operating financial performance, unaffected by discontinued operations, asset sales, impairments, or other items detailed in the attached summary financial statements. Certain contingent obligations arising in connection with previously disposed assets or discontinued operations have the potential to impact, favorably or unfavorably, the company's reported earnings in 2008.
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" each found in the MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energy's Form 10-K and Consumers' Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2007. CMS Energy's and Consumers' "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" sections are incorporated herein by reference that discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energy's and Consumers' results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our web site at: www.cmsenergy.com
Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395
Investment Analyst Contact: CMS Energy Investor Relations, 517/788-2590
 
 
 
 
 
 


