FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20080528095754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
CMS Energy's management team will be meeting with investors at the Deutsche Bank Energy and Utilities Conference ("Conference") May 28 and 29. CMS Energy's executive vice president and chief financial officer will provide a company overview at the Conference on Thursday, May 29, beginning at 2 p.m. EDT. A webcast of the presentation will be available at the CMS Energy website, www.cmsenergy.com. A copy of the CMS Energy Slide Presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits.
This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" each found in the MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energy's Form 10-K and Consumers Energy's Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 and as updated in CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's Forms 10-Q for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2008. CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" sections are incorporated herein by reference and discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 31, 2008 the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) filed his Proposal for Decision (PFD) in Consumers Energy's request for final electric rate relief and recovery of Zeeland plant costs. The ALJ's recommended increase is $8 million more than the MPSC staff's recommendation. The ALJ recommended an ROE of 10.42%, which is lower than both the Company and Staff positions. The PFD states that the Commission should make final determination related to $127 million in Palisades decommissioning proceeds. The ALJ supports the Company's rate design and cost allocation proposals, including elimination of rate skewing over 5 years. Details comparing the ALJ's position with both the Company and MPSC Staff positions are provided below.
 
 
 
 
http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/efile/electric.html
 
On February 15, 2008, Consumers Energy filed an application with the Michigan Public Service Commission seeking an increase in its gas delivery and transportation rates based on a 2009 test year. The request seeks authority to implement a revenue decoupling mechanism for the residential rate class, which enables the Company to recover appropriate operating and maintenance expenses to ensure continued reliable service to customers. The decoupling mechanism also removes the impact of the energy efficiency and conservation programs on revenues. The proposed capital structure includes an 11.00% authorized return on equity. If approved, the request would add about $3.00 per month, or about 3.5%, to the typical residential customer's average monthly bill. The $91 million revenue deficiency is detailed below.
 
http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/efile/gas.html
 
 
Status Codes: F-Fixed rate; V-Variable rate; S-Secured; U-Unsecured
 
 
Reconciliation of reported measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
Note: Year-to-date (YTD) EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences.
A-1
 
Reconciliation of reported measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
Note: Year-to-date & full-year EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences.
NM: Not meaningful.
A-2
 
Reconciliation of reported measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
Note: Year-to-date & full-year EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences.
A-3
 
Note: Year-to-date (YTD) EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences.
A-4
 
A-5
 
Reconciliation of reported measures prepared in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
A-6
 
 
A-7
 
     
A-8
 
     
 
A-9
 
A-10


