FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20090527153300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At the 2009 annual meeting held on May 22, 2009, the shareholders of CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") approved an amended version of CMS Energys Performance Incentive Stock Plan ("Plan"). Among other things, the approval reserved 6,000,000 shares, included a clawback provision, and extended the term of the plan until May 31, 2014. A description of the Plan is included in CMS Energys Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 10, 2009 under the heading "Proposal 3: Proposal for Approval of the Corporations Amended Performance Incentive Stock Plan." The preceding disclosure does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan. A copy of the Plan is attached as exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. On May 27, 2009, Consumers Energy Company ("Consumers"), principal subsidiary of CMS Energy, entered into a Change in Control Agreement ("CIC Agreement") with James Brunner, CMS Energy and Consumers General Counsel, in a form which CMS Energy plans to utilize for certain other officers, approved by the Compensation and Human Resources Board Committee. A copy of the form of the CIC Agreement has been filed as exhibit (10)(s) to CMS Energys 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated by reference herein. Under the main feature of the CIC Agreement, if there were a "Change in Control" of CMS Energy, in return for releasing all claims against CMS Energy and various other covenants of the officer, the officer would be paid a separation payment in an amount equal to a multiple of his/her then annual base salary and annual target bonus (3 times in the case of Mr. Brunner). In addition, the CIC Agreement provides for immediate vesting of restricted stock (provided however, that performance-based shares will vest at the target level if the performance goal is based on total shareholder return and will vest as a pro rata share of the target if the performance g oal is based on relative shareholder return), provides for use of the separation payment amount when calculating benefits under CMS Energys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and otherwise generally preserves existing rights to other benefits, such as pension benefits and related compensation, which the officer had accrued at the time of termination. The preceding disclosure does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of the CIC Agreement.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
At the 2009 annual meeting held on May 22, 2009, the shareholders of CMS Energy adopted an amendment to CMS Energys Restated Articles of Incorporation. The amendment allows CMS Energys director election vote standard to be changed to a majority vote standard in uncontested elections. In contested elections, CMS Energy will continue to apply a plurality standard. The preceding disclosure is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment. A copy of the amendment is attached as exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 3.1 Amendment to CMS Energys Restated Articles of Incorporation 10.1 CMS Energys Performance Incentive Stock Plan, amended and restated effective June 1, 2009
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS each found in the MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS sections of CMS Energy Corporations (CMS Energy) Form 10-K and Consumers Energy Companys (Consumers) Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2008 and as updated in CMS Energys and Consumers Forms 10-Q for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2009. CMS Energys and Consumers FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections are incorporated herei n by reference and discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energys and Consumers results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

"In an uncontested election of directors, each director of the Corporation shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast by the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors (a "majority vote"); however, in a contested election, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this provision, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director. For purposes of this Article XII, (i) an "uncontested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is not greater than the number to be elected, and (ii) a "contested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is greater than the number to be elected.
Following any uncontested election, any incumbent director who failed to receive a majority vote, shall tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. A recommendation on whether or not to accept such resignation offer shall be made by (i) a designated standing committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee"), or (ii) if each member of the Committee did not receive a majority vote, then the independent directors who did receive a majority vote may appoint a committee from amongst themselves to consider the resignation offer and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors, or (iii) if three or fewer independent directors received a majority vote, then all such directors may participate in the actions regarding the resignation offers and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will act on the recommendation and publicly disclose its decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the Board of Directors' decision."

The CMS Energy Corporation Performance Incentive Stock Plan, first effective February 3, 1988, is hereby set forth as amended and restated effective June 1, 2009.
The CMS Energy Corporation Performance Incentive Stock Plan (hereinafter called the "Plan") is a Plan to provide incentive compensation to Eligible Persons, based upon such Eligible Persons' individual contributions to the long-term growth and profitability of the Corporation, and in order to encourage such Eligible Persons to identify with shareholder concerns and their current and continuing interest in the development and financial success of the Corporation. Because it is expected that the efforts of the key employees or Directors selected for participation in the Plan will have a significant impact on the results of the Corporation's operations in future years, the Plan is intended to assist the Corporation in attracting and retaining as key employees or Directors individuals of superior ability and in motivating their activities on behalf of the Corporation.
2.1 When used in the Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
Definitions:
The exercise of the underlying Stock Option shall terminate the related Stock Appreciation Right to the extent of the number of shares purchased upon exercise of the underlying Stock Option. The exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate the related underlying Stock Option to the extent of the number of shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised. Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, an Optionee shall be entitled to receive, without payment to the Company (except for applicable withholding taxes), an amount equal to the excess of (i) the then aggregate fair market value of the number of shares with respect to which the Optionee exercises the Stock Appreciation Right, over (ii) the aggregate Stock Option price per share for such number of shares. Such amount may be paid by the Corporation, in cash, Common Stock of the Corporation or any combination thereof.
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may grant Stock Appreciation Rights that are not in conjunction with a related underlying Stock Option. The basis used in determining any increase in the value of the Common Stock under such Stock Appreciation Right shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant. To the extent, if any, that the Committee elects to grant such Stock Appreciation Rights, then the grant shall in all respects conform in writing with all requirements of 409A, including, without limitation, a definite valuation/vesting date for determining the value of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Each Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right granted hereunder shall be exercisable at any such time or times or in any such installments as may be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant, subject to the limitation that for each Incentive Option and related Stock Appreciation Right granted, a maximum of $100,000 (based on the price at the date of grant) may be exercised per year, plus any unused carry-over from a previous year(s).
7.3
Distribution of Restricted Common Stock:
Unless otherwise set forth in the grant, in the event the employment of an employee Participant is terminated during a performance period due to death, disability or retirement under the provisions of the Pension Plan after age 55 the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary will receive a prorated payout of Performance Units. In the event the employment is terminated for any other reason, then all Performance Units will be forfeited. If the service of a Non-Employee Director is terminated during a performance period, the Participant will receive a prorated payout of Performance Units. Notwithstanding the above, no payouts will be made to the extent that objectives other than the duration of the performance period have not been met except to the extent that the Committee in its discretion decides to waive any such other achievement or objectives.
10.2
Clawback:
Unless otherwise required by law, the provisions of this Subsection b. relating to the return of previously vested Plan benefits shall not apply unless a claim is made therefore by the Corporation within three years of the vesting of such benefits.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, execution is hereby effected.
Attachment A
means a change in control of CMS Energy Corporation, and shall be deemed to have occurred upon the first to occur of any of the following events:
"Change in Control"
Notwithstanding the foregoing clauses (a), (c) and (d), a "Change in Control" shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions closing within six months after the closing of the first transaction in the series immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of CMS Energy Corporation immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of CMS Energy Corporation immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.
Attachment A


