FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20100324091800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 24, 2010, CMS Energy Corporation ("CMS Energy") announced the following changes in its and its principal subsidiarys, Consumers Energy Company ("Consumers"), Boards of Directors (the "Board") and senior leadership. David W. Joos has elected to retire from his current positions as CMS Energys president and chief executive officer ("CEO") and Consumers CEO, and is expected to be elected non-executive chairman of the Board ("Chairman") at the May 21, 2010 Board meeting. John G. Russell will, effective May 21, 2010, succeed Mr. Joos as CMS Energy president and CEO and Consumers CEO and will be nominated to join the CMS Energy and Consumers boards of directors. He will also continue in his current position of president of Consumers. At this time, Mr. Russells current position of Consumers chief operating officer will not be filled. Mr. Russell, age 52, first joined the utility in 1981 and was elected a company officer in 1999. He was executive vic e president and president and chief executive officer of Consumers electric business from 2001-2004. Mr. Russell served since 2004 as president and chief operating officer of Consumers. Mr. Russell currently serves on the board of directors and the executive committee of the American Gas Association, and he serves on the Board of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies; the Michigan Great Lakes Wind Council; the Deans Advisory Board of Grand Valley State Universitys Seidman College of Business; and the boards of Grand Rapids-based The Right Place Inc., the Michigan Virtual University, and the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. The Compensation Committee of the Board has approved a base salary for Mr. Russell in his new position of $900,000 annually and his standard award percentage under the CMS Incentive Compensation Plan will increase to 100%. Consistent with an agreement entered into between Mr. Joos and the Board, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved the payment of not less than the current annual Chairmans retainer of $120,000 per year for Mr. Joos in his new capacity as Board Chairman. Mr. Joos will also receive applicable Board meeting fees, the annual Board retainer and will be eligible to receive the current annual directors equity grant or a cash equivalent. The Compensation Committee also approved the award of 100,000 shares of restricted stock or its equivalent to Mr. Joos, and agreed to waive any forfeiture provision of this restricted stock when Mr. Joos retires, subject to an additional requirement that he serve as Board Chairman for at least two years. The Compensation Committee also waived the forfeiture provision of the restricted stock granted to Mr. Joos in 2009. Effective with Mr. Joos appointment as Chairman, his severance agreement with Consumers, dated as of April 14, 2004, will be terminated. Board directors Ken Whipple, Joseph F. Paquette, Jr. and Percy A. Pierre will not be standing for re-election at CMS Energys and Consumers May 21, 2010 annual shareholders meeting. Mr. Whipple and Mr. Paquette have reached the mandatory retirement age and, under CMS Energys governance principles, cannot stand for re-election. Mr. Pierre has elected to retire. Separately, Philip R. Lochner, Jr. will succeed Mr. Paquette as the Boards presiding director. A CMS Energy News Release making these announcements is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 CMS Energy Corporation News Release dated March 24, 2010
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections of CMS Energy Corporations (CMS Energy) Form 10-K and Consumers Energy Companys (Consumers Energy) Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2009. CMS Energys and Consumers Energys FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION and RISK FACTORS sections are incorporated herein by reference and discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energys and Consumers Energys results to differ materially from those antici pated in such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

JACKSON, Mich., March 24, 2010  David W. Joos has elected to retire from his position as the company's president and chief executive officer to assume the non-executive chairmanship of the CMS Energy and Consumers Energy boards of directors at the May 21 annual shareholders meeting. He succeeds Ken Whipple, who has served as chairman since 2002. Joos served since 2004 as CMS Energy president and chief executive officer, and chief executive officer of Consumers Energy.
John G. Russell will succeed Joos as CMS Energy and Consumers Energy president and chief executive officer and has been nominated to join the CMS Energy and Consumers Energy boards of directors. Russell, 52, served since 2004 as president and chief operating officer for Consumers Energy. He was executive vice president of Consumers Energy, and president and CEO of the utility's electric business from 2001-2004. Russell first joined the utility in 1981 and was elected a company officer in 1999. Russell graduated from Michigan State University with a bachelor's degree in business administration in 1980. In 1994, he completed the Program for Management Development at the Harvard Business School. Russell will assume his new responsibilities effective May 21.
"John's experience and his leadership of our utility business, the focus of our Growing Forward strategy, make him the ideal candidate to lead the companies at this time," Joos said.
"I am honored to take over the leadership of the companies. I am committed to continuing the successful execution of our Michigan investment plan," said Russell. "These investments in our utility operations will improve customer service and spur growth in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and state of the art power generation. We remain dedicated to providing our electric and gas customers with safe, reliable and affordable service, protecting Michigan's environment, and contributing to the economic recovery of our state."
CMS Energy Corporation and its principal subsidiary, Consumers Energy Company, also announced the following changes in their boards of directors:
Directors Ken Whipple, Joseph F. Paquette, Jr. and Percy A. Pierre will not be standing for re-election at the company's May 21 annual shareholders meeting. Whipple and Paquette have reached the mandatory retirement age and, under the company's governance principles, cannot stand for re-election. Whipple served as a director since 1993. Paquette served since 2002, and previously from 1987-1988.
Pierre, a director since 1990, has elected to retire after two decades of service to the company and its shareholders. As a result of these changes, the boards will be reduced from 12 directors to 10.
"On behalf of the board, I want to express our sincere thanks to our retiring directors for their thoughtful counsel and many years of dedicated service to our shareholders," said Joos. "We're grateful for the many contributions they have made to the company's success."
CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) is a Michigan-based company that has an electric and natural gas utility, Consumers Energy, as its primary business and also owns and operates independent power generation businesses.
For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our web site at: www.cmsenergy.com
Media Contacts: Jeff Holyfield, 517/788-2394 or Dan Bishop, 517/788-2395
Investment Analyst Contact: CMS Energy Investor Relations, 517/788-2590


