FILE:CMS/CMS-8K-20121114164959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 9, 2012, Consumers Energy Company ("Consumers"), a principal subsidiary of CMS Energy Corporation, amended its Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of November 23, 2010 (the "Facility"). The parties to the Facility are listed in the Facility, which was previously filed as Exhibit 10.34 to the Form 10-K filed February 24, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference. This amendment extends the term of the Facility until December 31, 2012.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has provided banking and underwriting services to Consumers in the ordinary course of business.
The foregoing description of the amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in Rule 3b-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Rule 175 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and relevant legal decisions. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" sections of CMS Energy Corporation's ("CMS Energy") Form 10-K and Consumers Energy Company's ("Consumers Energy") Form 10-K each for the Year Ended December 31, 2011 and as updated in CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's Forms 10-Q for the Quarters Ended March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012. CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION" and "RISK FACTORS" sections are incorporated herein by reference and discuss important factors that could cause CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Copy
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 3 (this "") is entered into as of November 9, 2012 by and among Consumers Receivables Funding II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""), Consumers Energy Company, a Michigan corporation (""), as initial servicer (the ""), the entities party hereto from time to time as Conduits (together with any of their respective successors and assigns hereunder, the ""), the entities party hereto from time to time as Financial Institutions (together with any of their respective successors and assigns hereunder, the ""), the entities party hereto from time to time as Managing Agents (together with any of their respective successors and assigns hereunder, the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as administrative agent for the Purchasers (together with its successors and assigns hereunder, the "").
Amendment
Seller
Consumers
Servicer
Conduits
Financial Institutions
Managing Agents
JPMC
Administrative Agent
The Seller, the Servicer, the Conduits, the Financial Institutions, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of November 23, 2010 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the ""). Terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned in the RPA.
RPA
The parties to the RPA enter into this Amendment to provide for certain modifications to the terms and provisions of the RPA as more particularly set forth hereinbelow.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. . Subject to the satisfaction of the condition precedent set forth in below, to the RPA is amended to delete in its entirety the definition therein of "" and to substitute the following definition therefor:
Amendment to the RPA
Section 2
Exhibit I
Liquidity Termination Date
"" means December 31, 2012.
Liquidity Termination Date
2. . This Amendment shall become effective and be deemed effective, as of the date first above written, upon the latest to occur of receipt by the Administrative Agent of one copy of this Amendment duly executed by each of the parties hereto.
Condition Precedent
3. .
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Seller and the Servicer
3.1. Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each of the Seller and the Servicer hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties made by it in the RPA, as amended, and agrees that all such covenants, representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been re-made as of the effective date of this Amendment.
3.2. Each of the Seller and the Servicer hereby represents and warrants as to itself (i) that this Amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such party enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity which may limit the availability of equitable remedies and (ii) upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, that no event shall have occurred and be continuing which constitutes an Amortization Event or a Potential Amortization Event.
4. . Without limiting the rights of the Administrative Agent, the Managing Agents and the Purchasers set forth in the RPA and the other Transaction Documents, the Seller agrees to pay on demand all reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Managing Agents and the Purchasers incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered in connection herewith and with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Purchasers as to their rights and responsibilities hereunder and thereunder.
Fees, Costs, Expenses and Taxes
5. . The RPA, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed in all respects.
Ratification
6. . From and after the effective date hereof, each reference in the RPA to "this Agreement", "hereof", or "hereunder" or words of like import, and all references to the RPA in any and all agreements, instruments, documents, notes, certificates and other writings of every kind and nature shall be deemed to mean the RPA as amended by this Amendment.
Reference to Agreement
7. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF NEW YORK, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS.
CHOICE OF LAW
8. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Execution of Counterparts
 
9. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first written above.
 


