FILE:GT/GT-8K-20020807121907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 7.     Exhibits
Item 9.     Regulation FD Disclosure
     On August 6, 2002, each of the Principal Executive Officer, Samir G. Gibara, and Principal Financial Officer, Robert W. Tieken, of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company forwarded to the Securities and Exchange Commission sworn statements pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Order No. 4-460.
     A copy of each of these statements is attached hereto as an Exhibit (99.1 and 99.2).
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

\ EXHIBIT 99.1 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Samir G. Gibara, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's Audit Committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Samir G. Gibara ----------------------------------------------- Date: August 6, 2002 Samir G. Gibara, Principal Executive Officer of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Subscribed and sworn to before me this 6th day of August, 2002. /s/ Audrey H. Sims ---------------------------------------- Notary Public My Commission Expires: Feb 1 2004 Audrey H. Sims, Notary Public Residence - Summit County State Wide Jurisdiction, Ohio

EXHIBIT 99.2 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Robert W. Tieken, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's Audit Committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Robert W. Tieken ------------------------------------------------ Dated: August 6, 2002 Robert W. Tieken, Principal Financial Officer of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Subscribed and sworn to before me this 6th day of August, 2002. /s/ Audrey H. Sims ----------------------------------------- Notary Public My Commission Expires: Feb 1 2004 Audrey H. Sims, Notary Public Residence - Summit County State Wide Jurisdiction, Ohio



