FILE:GT/GT-8K-20040721164343.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7(c). Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
A. Introduction
     On July 21, 2004, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company issued a press release announcing that it intends to refinance its $680 million senior secured U.S. revolving credit facility, which matures on April 30, 2005. The new $500 million senior secured funded credit facility, which is expected to mature in 2007, will be secured by the same collateral as the senior secured U.S. revolving credit facility it replaces. The transaction is subject to market conditions and the execution of definitive documentation and is expected to close in August. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The information contained in this Item 9 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is being provided to the proposed lenders under the new secured facility. The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to comply with its obligations under Regulation FD of the Securities Act of 1933.
B. Supplemental Information
Certain Collateral Information
     The stock of certain foreign subsidiaries is pledged as collateral under the Company's senior secured credit facilities and is proposed to be pledged as collateral securing the new $500 million senior secured funded credit facility. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2004, the aggregate sales less cost of goods sold less selling, administrative and general expense plus depreciation and amortization of these foreign subsidiaries was $261 million. As of March 31, 2004, these foreign subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $19 million.
Certain Historical Financial Information
     Our Consolidated EBITDA for the years ended 2001 and 2002 is presented below. Other companies may calculate similarly titled measures differently than Goodyear does. Certain line items are presented as defined in the Company's senior secured credit facilities, and do not reflect amounts as presented in its Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Table of Contents
     We have presented Consolidated EBITDA because it is a financial measure that is calculated in a manner consistent with the calculation of "Consolidated EBITDA" under our senior secured credit facilities, as more fully described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that is presented not as a measure of operating results, but rather as a measure of the Company's ability to service debt. It should not be construed as an alternative to either (i) income from operations or (ii) cash flows from operating activities. The Company's failure to comply with the financial covenants in its senior secured credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and operations. Accordingly, management believes that the presentation of Consolidated EBITDA will provide investors with information needed to assess the Company's ability to continue to comply with these covenants.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 21, 2004, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company issued a press release reporting certain preliminary results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed
Table of Contents
incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     Certain information set forth herein and in the exhibit attached hereto (other than historical data and information) may constitute forward-looking statements regarding events and trends that may affect our future operating results and financial position. The words "estimate," "expect," "intend" and "project," as well as other words or expressions of similar meaning, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of the particular statement. Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, are inherently uncertain, are subject to risks and should be viewed with caution. Actual results and experience may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     AKRON, Ohio, July 21, 2004  The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company said today it expects to report second quarter 2004 sales of about $4.5 billion, compared to $3.8 billion in the prior-year period. The increase in sales reflects higher volume, improved pricing and product mix, and includes the impact of the first quarter consolidation of two subsidiaries, as well as the favorable impact of currency translation.
     All seven Goodyear businesses, including North American Tire, expect to report positive segment operating income in the second quarter. The two European business units will be up more than 25 percent and Latin America, Engineered Products and Chemical will be up at least 50 percent compared with the same period a year ago.
     "Our second quarter results will reflect higher sales in all of our businesses, improved pricing and product mix, as well the impact of our turnaround initiatives," said Robert J. Keegan, Goodyear chairman and chief executive officer. "While we are pleased with our year-to-date operating results, challenges remain, including high levels of debt and unfunded pension obligations, which we are addressing with specific strategies."
     The company announced today that it intends to refinance its $680 million senior secured U.S. revolving credit facility, which matures on April 30, 2005.
     The new $500 million senior secured funded credit facility, which Goodyear expects to mature in 2007, will be secured by the same collateral as the $680 million senior secured U.S. revolving credit facility it replaces.
     The transaction is subject to market conditions and the execution of definitive documentation and is expected to close in August.
     Goodyear also indicated it has concluded its exploration into the possible sale of its Chemical Business, determining that the business remains more valuable to the company and its stakeholders if retained than if sold.
     "Given its improved earnings, we believe the cash flows and cost advantages Goodyear derives from the Chemical Business, as well as its positive contributions to the tire businesses, outweigh the benefits of a potential sale," Keegan said. "The current and projected raw material market reinforces this decision."
 
     Goodyear will report full second quarter financial results on Thursday, August 5, followed by an investor conference call at 9 a.m., EDT.
     Participating in the conference call with Keegan will be Richard J. Kramer, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Prior to the call, the company will post the financial and other statistical information that will be presented on its investor relations Web site: investor.goodyear.com.
     Shareholders, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Web site or via telephone by calling (706) 634-5954 before 8:55 a.m. that day. A taped replay of the conference call will be available at 2 p.m. by calling (706) 634-4556. The call replay will also remain available on the Web site.
     Goodyear is the world's largest tire company. The company manufactures tires, engineered rubber products and chemicals in more than 80 facilities in 28 countries around the world. Goodyear employs about 86,000 people worldwide.
     
Certain information contained in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the factors discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its
Form 10-K
for the year ended Dec. 31, 2003 and
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The Company's ability to consummate the transaction referenced above is subject to a number of contingencies, including but not limited to, due diligence procedures, the satisfactory negotiation of various transaction-related documents and customary conditions to closing. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change.


