FILE:GT/GT-8K-20050419082809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company ("Goodyear") has reached agreement effective April 13, 2005, to settle Goodyears claims for insurance coverage for asbestos and pollution related liabilities with respect to pre-1993 insurance policies issued by certain underwriters at Lloyds, London, and reinsured by Equitas Limited ("Equitas"). While many of the specific terms of that settlement agreement are confidential, the settlement agreement generally provides for the payment of money to Goodyear in exchange for the release by Goodyear of past, present and future claims under those policies and the cancellation of those policies; agreement by Goodyear to indemnify the underwriters from claims asserted under those policies; and provisions addressing the impact on the settlement should federal asbestos reform legislation be enacted on or before January 3, 2007. Under the agreement, in the second quarter of 2005, Equitas will pay $22 million to the Company and will place $39 million into a trust . The trust funds may be used to reimburse Goodyear for a portion of costs it incurs in the future to resolve certain asbestos claims. Goodyears ability to use any of the trust funds is subject to specified confidential criteria, as well as limits on the amount that may be drawn from the trust in any one month. If federal asbestos reform legislation is enacted into law on or prior to January 3, 2007, then the trust would repay Equitas any amount it is required to pay with respect to Goodyears asbestos liabilities as a result of such legislation. If such legislation is not enacted by that date, any funds remaining in the trust will be disbursed to Goodyear to enable it to meet future asbestos-related liabilities or for other purposes.
Certain information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the enactment, if any, of federal asbestos legislation, as well as the factors discussed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


