FILE:GT/GT-8K-20050427145850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 26, 2005, the shareholders of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company ("Goodyear" or the "Company") approved the 2005 Performance Plan of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Plan"). The purposes of the Plan are to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by strengthening the ability of the Company to attract, retain and reward highly qualified officers and other employees, to motivate officers and other selected employees to achieve business objectives established to promote the long term growth, profitability and success of the Company, and to encourage ownership of the Common Stock of the Company by participating officers and other selected employees. The Plan authorizes performance based stock and cash incentive compensation in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance grants and awards, and other stock-based grants and awards. A total of twelve million shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Plan, subject to certain adjustments. < br> The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") which will have the sole authority to, among other things: construe and interpret the Plan; make rules and regulations relating to the administration of the Plan; select participants, and establish the terms and conditions of grants and awards. Any employee of Goodyear or any of its subsidiaries, including any officer of Goodyear, selected by the Committee is eligible to receive grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights under the Plan. Any officer of Goodyear and any other key employee of Goodyear or a subsidiary selected by the Committee is eligible to receive restricted stock, performance and other grants and awards under the Plan. The selection of participants and the nature and size of grants and awards will be wholly within the discretion of the Committee. It is anticipated that all officers of Goodyear will receive various grants under the Plan and approximately 1,000 other employees of Goodyear and its subsidiaries will participate in at least one feature of the Plan. The Plan will remain in effect until April 26, 2008, unless sooner terminated by the Board of Directors. Termination will not affect grants and awards then outstanding. The foregoing description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the Plan, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1 The 2005 Performance Plan of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

1. PURPOSE.
The purposes of the 2005 Performance Plan of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Plan") are to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by strengthening the ability of the Company to attract, retain and reward highly qualified officers and other employees, to motivate officers and other selected employees to achieve business objectives established to promote the long term growth, profitability and success of the Company, and to encourage ownership of the Common Stock of the Company by participating officers and other selected employees. The Plan authorizes performance based stock and cash incentive compensation in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance grants and awards, and other stock-based grants and awards.
2. DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
means, with respect to any calendar or other fiscal year of the Company, the amount reported as "Net Income" in the audited Consolidated Income Statement of the Company and Subsidiaries for such year (as set forth in the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for such year), adjusted to exclude any of the following items: (i) extraordinary items (as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30); (ii) gains or losses on the disposition of discontinued operations; (iii) the cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles; (iv) the writedown of any asset; and (v) charges for restructuring and rationalization programs.
(a) "ADJUSTED NET INCOME"
means, with respect to any calendar or other fiscal year of the Company in respect of which a determination thereof is being or to be made, the Adjusted Net Income for such year divided by the average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding during such year.
(b) "ANNUAL NET INCOME PER SHARE"
means any payment or settlement in respect of a grant made pursuant to the Plan, whether in the form of shares of Common Stock or in cash, or in any combination thereof.
(c) "AWARD"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(d) "BOARD OF DIRECTORS"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect from time to time, or any successor statute thereto, together with the published rulings, regulations and interpretations duly promulgated thereunder.
(e) "CODE"
means the committee of the Board of Directors established and constituted as provided in Section 5 of the Plan.
(f) "COMMITTEE"
means the common stock, without par value, of the Company, or any security issued by the Company in substitution or exchange therefor or in lieu thereof.
(g) "COMMON STOCK"
means a Unit (or fraction thereof, if authorized by the Committee) substantially equivalent to a hypothetical share of Common Stock, credited to a Participant and having a value at any time equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock (or such fraction thereof) at such time.
(h) "COMMON STOCK EQUIVALENT"
means The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, an Ohio corporation, or any successor corporation.
(i) "COMPANY"
means any person who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
(j) "COVERED EMPLOYEE"
means, in respect of any Performance Period, the aggregate cumulative amount of the Adjusted Net Income for the calendar or other fiscal years of the Company during such Performance Period.
(k) "CUMULATIVE NET INCOME"
means, in respect of any Performance Period, the aggregate cumulative amount of the Annual Net Income Per Share for the calendar or other fiscal years of the Company during such Performance Period.
(l) "CUMULATIVE NET INCOME PER SHARE"
means, in respect of a Common Stock Equivalent and with respect to each dividend payment date for the Common Stock, an amount equal to the cash dividend on one share of Common Stock payable on such dividend payment date.
(m) "DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT"
means any individual, including any officer of the Company, who is on the active payroll of the Company or a Subsidiary at the relevant time.
(n) "EMPLOYEE"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect from time to time, including all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(o) "EXCHANGE ACT"
means, in respect of any date on or as of which a determination thereof is being or to be made, the average of the high and low per share sale prices of the Common Stock reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions tape on such date, or, if the Common Stock was not traded on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales of shares of the Common Stock were reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions tape.
(p) "FAIR MARKET VALUE"
means any option to purchase shares of Common Stock granted pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 of the Plan that is intended to be and is specifically designated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
(q) "INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION"
means any option to purchase shares of Common Stock granted pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 of the Plan that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(r) "NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION"
means any Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary who
(s) "PARTICIPANT"
receives a grant or Award under the Plan.
means a grant made pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan, the Award of which is contingent on the achievement of specific Performance Goals during a Performance Period, determined using a specific Performance Measure, all as specified in the grant agreement relating thereto.
(t) "PERFORMANCE GRANT"
mean, with respect to any applicable grant made pursuant to the Plan, the one or more targets, goals or levels of attainment required to be achieved in terms of the specified Performance Measure during the specified Performance Period, all as set forth in the related grant agreement.
(u) "PERFORMANCE GOALS"
means, with respect to any applicable grant made pursuant to the Plan, one or more of the criteria identified at Section 9(c) of the Plan selected by the Committee for the purpose of establishing, and measuring attainment of, Performance Goals for a Performance Period in respect of such grant, as provided in the related grant agreement.
(v) "PERFORMANCE MEASURE"
means, with respect to any applicable grant made pursuant to the Plan, the one or more periods of time, which may be of varying and overlapping durations, as the Committee may select during which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured to determine whether, and the extent to which, a Participant is entitled to receive payment of an Award pursuant to such grant.
(w) "PERFORMANCE PERIOD"
means this 2005 Performance Plan of the Company, as set forth herein and as hereafter amended from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
(x) "PLAN"
means shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock Grant under Section 8 of the Plan so long as such shares remain subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in the grant agreement pursuant to which such Restricted Stock Grant is made.
(y) "RESTRICTED STOCK"
means a grant made pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 of the Plan.
(z) "RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT"
means a grant in the form of a right to benefit from the appreciation of the Common Stock made pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.
(aa) "STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT"
means and includes any Non-Qualified Stock Option and any Incentive Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan.
(bb) "STOCK OPTION"
means any corporation or entity in which the Company directly or indirectly owns or controls 50% or more of the equity securities issued by such corporation or entity having the power to vote for the election of directors.
(cc) "SUBSIDIARY"
means a bookkeeping entry used by the Company to record and account for the grant, settlement or, if applicable, deferral of an Award until such time as such Award is paid, canceled, forfeited or terminated, as the case may be, which, except as otherwise specified by the Committee, shall be equal to one Common Stock Equivalent.
(dd) "UNIT"
3. EFFECTIVE DATE; TERM.
The Plan shall be effective on April 26, 2005, upon approval by the shareholders of the Company at the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders or any adjournments thereof.
(a) EFFECTIVE DATE.
The Plan shall remain in effect until April 26, 2008, unless sooner terminated by the Board of Directors. Termination of the Plan shall not affect grants and Awards then outstanding.
(b) TERM.
4. SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN.
The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued pursuant to the Plan, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b) of the Plan, shall be twelve million, plus any shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan that are forfeited back to the Company or are canceled. The shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares or issued shares reacquired by the Company. No fractional share of the Common Stock shall be issued under the Plan. Awards of fractional shares of the Common Stock, if any, shall be settled in cash.
(a) MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR ISSUANCE UNDER THE PLAN.
In the event of any change in the capital structure, capitalization or Common Stock of the Company such as a stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination or exchange of shares or other form of reorganization, or any other change affecting the Common Stock, such proportionate adjustments, if any, as the Board of Directors in its discretion may deem appropriate to reflect such change shall be made with respect to: (i) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be (1) issued pursuant to the Plan, (2) the subject of any type of grant or Award under the Plan, and (3) granted, Awarded or issued to any Participant pursuant to any provision of the Plan; (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any outstanding Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right or other grant or Award made to any Participant under the Plan; (iii) the per share exercise price in respect of any outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights; (iv) the number of shares of Common Stock and the number of Units or the value of such Units, as the case may be, which are the subject of other grants and Awards then outstanding under the Plan; and (v) any other term or condition of any grant affected by any such change.
(b) ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITAL STRUCTURE.
5. ADMINISTRATION.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee to be appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors and comprised of not less than three of the then members of the Board of Directors who qualify as "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16(b)-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act and as "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Members of the Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may from time to time remove members from, or add members to, the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the acts of the Committee. Any one or more members of the Committee may participate in a meeting by conference telephone or similar means where all persons participating in the meeting can hear and speak to each other, which participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Action approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee then serving shall be fully as effective as if the action had been taken by unanimous vote at a meeting duly called and held. The Company shall make grants and effect Awards under the Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions specified by the Committee, which terms and conditions shall be set forth in grant agreements and/or other instruments in such forms as the Committee shall approve.
(a) THE COMMITTEE.
The Committee shall have full power and authority to operate and administer the Plan in accordance with its terms. The powers of the Committee include, but are not limited to, the power to: (i) select Participants from among the Employees of the Company and Subsidiaries; (ii) establish the types of, and the terms and conditions of, all grants and Awards made under the Plan, subject to any applicable limitations set forth in, and consistent with the express terms of, the Plan; (iii) make grants and pay or otherwise effect Awards subject to, and consistent with, the express provisions of the Plan; (iv) establish Performance Goals, Performance Measures and Performance Periods, subject to, and consistent with, the express provisions of the Plan; (v) reduce the amount of any grant or Award; (vi) prescribe the form or forms of grant agreements and other instruments evidencing grants and Awards under the Plan; (vii) pay and to defer payment of Awards on such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine; (viii) direct the Company to make conversions, accruals and payments pursuant to the Plan; (ix) construe and interpret the Plan and make any determination of fact incident to the operation of the Plan; (x) promulgate, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the implementation, operation and administration of the Plan; (xi) adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the laws of other countries with respect to Participants or prospective Participants employed in such other countries; (xii) delegate to other persons the responsibility for performing administrative or ministerial acts in furtherance of the Plan; (xiii) engage the services of persons and firms, including banks, consultants and insurance companies, in furtherance of the Plan's activities; and (xiv) make all other determinations and take all other actions as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration and operation of the Plan.
(b) COMMITTEE POWERS.
. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration or application of the Plan, and of any grant agreement, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all Participants, and all persons claiming through Participants, affected thereby.
(c) COMMITTEE'S DECISIONS FINAL
For the purpose of accounting for Awards deferred as to payment, the Company shall establish bookkeeping accounts expressed in Units bearing the name of each Participant receiving such Awards. Each account shall be unfunded, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 15(d) of the Plan.
(d) ADMINISTRATIVE ACCOUNTS.
In respect of each grant under the Plan to a Covered Employee which the Committee intends to be "performance based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the provisions of the Plan and the related grant agreement shall be construed to confirm such intent, and to conform to the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, and the Committee shall certify in writing (which writing may include approved minutes of a meeting of the Committee) that the applicable Performance Goal(s), determined using the Performance Measure specified in the related grant agreement, was attained during the relevant Performance Period at a level that equaled or exceeded the level required for the payment of such Award in the amount proposed to be paid and that such Award does not exceed any applicable Plan limitation.
(e) CERTIFICATIONS.
6. STOCK OPTIONS.
Options to purchase shares of Common Stock may be granted under the Plan and may be Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options. All Stock Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 6 and shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine. Stock Options may be granted in addition to, or in tandem with or independent of, Stock Appreciation Rights or other grants and Awards under the Plan. The Committee may grant Stock Options that provide for the automatic grant of a replacement Stock Option if payment of the exercise price and/or any related withholding taxes is made by tendering (whether by physical delivery or by attestation) shares of Common Stock or by having shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company. The replacement Stock Option would cover the number of shares of Common Stock tendered or withheld, would have a per share exercise price equal to at least 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of the exercise of the original Stock Option, and would have such other terms and conditions as may be specified by the Committee and set forth in the related grant agreement.
(a) IN GENERAL.
Any officer of the Company and any other employee of the Company or a Subsidiary may be granted Stock Options. The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, the Employees to whom Stock Options will be granted, the timing of such grants, and the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each Stock Option granted; provided, that (i) the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued and delivered upon the exercise of Non-Qualified Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be ten million, (ii) the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued and delivered upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall be five million, (iii) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which Stock Options may be granted to any Employee during any calendar year shall be 500,000, and (iv) in respect of Incentive Stock Options, the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the shares of Common Stock with respect to which an Incentive Stock Option becomes exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000, or such other limit as may be required by the Code, except that, if authorized by the Committee and provided for in the related grant agreement, any portion of any Incentive Stock Option that cannot be exercised as such because of this limitation may be converted into and exercised as a Non-Qualified Stock Option. In no event shall any Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right be granted to a Participant in exchange for the Participant's agreement to the cancellation of one or more Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights then held by such Participant if the exercise price of the new grant is lower than the exercise price of the grant to be cancelled and in no event shall any Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right be amended to reduce the option price, except as contemplated by Section 4(b) of the Plan.
(b) ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
The per share exercise price of each Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee prior to or at the time of grant, but in no event shall the per share exercise price of any Stock Option be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of the grant of such Stock Option.
(c) OPTION EXERCISE PRICE.
The term of each Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee; except that in no event shall the term of any Stock Option exceed ten years after the date such Stock Option is granted.
(d) OPTION TERM.
A Stock Option shall be exercisable at such time or times and subject to such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee at the date of grant; provided, however, that no Stock Option shall be exercisable during the first six months after the date such Stock Option is granted. No Stock Option may be exercised unless the holder thereof is at the time of such exercise an Employee and has been continuously an Employee since the date such Stock Option was granted, except that the Committee may permit the exercise of any Stock Option for any period following the Participant's termination of employment not in excess of the original term of the Stock Option on such terms and conditions as it shall deem appropriate and specify in the related grant agreement.
(e) EXERCISABILITY.
A Stock Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving written notice of exercise to the Company specifying the number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price, plus any required withholding taxes, in cash or, if permitted by the terms of the related grant agreement or otherwise approved in advance by the Committee, in shares of Common Stock already owned by the Participant valued at the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise. The Committee may also permit Participants, either on a selective or aggregate basis, to simultaneously exercise Stock Options and sell the shares of Common Stock thereby acquired pursuant to a brokerage or similar arrangement approved in advance by the Committee and to use the proceeds from such sale to pay the exercise price and withholding taxes.
(f) METHOD OF EXERCISE.
7. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.
Stock Appreciation Rights in respect of shares of Common Stock may be granted under the Plan alone, in tandem with, in addition to or independent of a Stock Option or other grant or Award under the Plan. A Stock Appreciation Right entitles a Participant to receive an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise over the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right, or such other higher price as may be set by the Committee, multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right shall have been exercised.
(a) IN GENERAL.
Any officer of the Company and any other Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary selected by the Committee may be granted Stock Appreciation Rights. The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, the Employees to whom Stock Appreciation Rights will be granted, the timing of such grants and the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which each Stock Appreciation Right is granted; provided that (i) the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted shall be 2.5 million, (ii) the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued and delivered in payment or settlement of Stock Appreciation Rights shall be two million, and (iii) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to any Employee during any calendar year shall be 100,000.
(b) ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
A Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised by a Participant at such time or times and in such manner as shall be authorized by the Committee and set forth in the related grant agreement, except that in no event shall a Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable within the first six months after the date of grant. The Committee may provide that a Stock Appreciation Right shall be automatically exercised on one or more specified dates. No Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised unless the holder thereof is at the time of exercise an Employee and has been continuously an Employee since the date the Stock Appreciation Right was granted, except that the Committee may permit the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right for any period following the Participant's termination of employment not in excess of the original term of the Stock Appreciation Right on such terms and conditions as it shall deem appropriate and specify in the related grant agreement. A Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving the Company a written notice specifying the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Right is to be exercised. Stock Appreciation Rights may be paid upon exercise in cash, in shares of Common Stock, or in any combination of cash and shares of Common Stock as determined by the Committee.
(c) EXERCISABILITY; EXERCISE; FORM OF PAYMENT.
8. RESTRICTED STOCK GRANTS AND AWARDS.
A Restricted Stock Grant is the issue of shares of Common Stock in the name of an Employee, which issuance is subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem appropriate, including, without limitation, restrictions on the sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition of such shares and the requirement that the Employee forfeit such shares back to the Company (i) upon termination of employment for specified reasons within a specified period of time, or (ii) if any specified Performance Goals are not achieved during a specified Performance Period, or (iii) if such other conditions as the Committee may specify are not satisfied.
(a) IN GENERAL.
Any officer of the Company and any other key Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary selected by the Committee may receive a Restricted Stock Grant. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether a Restricted Stock Grant shall be made, the Employee to receive the Restricted Stock Grant, and the conditions and restrictions imposed on the Restricted Stock Grant. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued as Restricted Stock under the Plan shall be 500,000. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued to any Employee as Restricted Stock during any calendar year shall not exceed 100,000. The maximum amount any Employee may receive as a Restricted Stock Grant in any calendar year shall not exceed $8 million, determined using the Fair Market Value of such Restricted Stock Grant as at the date of the grant thereof.
(b) ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
Restricted Stock Grants shall provide that in order for a Participant to receive shares of Common Stock free of restrictions, the Participant must remain in the employment of the Company or its Subsidiaries, subject to such exceptions as the Committee may deem appropriate and specify in the related grant agreement, for a period of not less than three years commencing on the date of the grant and ending on such later date or dates as the Committee may designate at the time of the grant (the "Restriction Period"). The Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide for the lapse of restrictions in installments during the Restriction Period. The Committee may also establish one or more Performance Goals that are required to be achieved during one or more Performance Periods within the Restriction Period as a condition to the lapse of the restrictions.
(c) RESTRICTION PERIOD.
The following restrictions and conditions shall apply to each Restricted Stock Grant during the Restriction Period: (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to delivery of the shares of the Common Stock; (ii) the Participant may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise dispose of or realize on the shares of Common Stock subject to the Restricted Stock Grant; and (iii) the shares of the Common Stock issued as Restricted Stock shall be forfeited to the Company if the Participant for any reason ceases to be an Employee prior to the end of the Restriction Period, except due to circumstances specified in the related grant agreement or otherwise approved by the Committee. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, include such other restrictions and conditions as it may deem appropriate.
(d) RESTRICTIONS.
Upon expiration of the Restriction Period and if all conditions have been satisfied and any applicable Performance Goals attained, the shares of the Restricted Stock will be made available to the Participant, subject to satisfaction of applicable withholding tax requirements, free of all restrictions; provided, that the Committee may, in its discretion, require (i) the further deferral of any Restricted Stock Grant beyond the initially specified Restriction Period, (ii) that the Restricted Stock be retained by the Company, and (iii) that the Participant receive a cash payment in lieu of unrestricted shares of Common Stock.
(e) PAYMENT.
A Participant shall have, with respect to shares of Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares and receive any cash dividends paid thereon. Stock dividends distributed with respect to shares of Restricted Stock shall be treated as additional shares under the Restricted Stock Grant and shall be subject to the restrictions and other terms and conditions set forth therein.
(f) RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER.
9. PERFORMANCE GRANTS AND AWARDS.
The Committee may grant to officers of the Company and other key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries the prospective contingent right, expressed in Units, to receive payments of shares of Common Stock, cash or any combination thereof, with each Unit equivalent in value to one share of Common Stock, or equivalent to such other value or monetary amount as may be designated or established by the Committee ("Performance Grants"), based upon Company performance over a specified Performance Period. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine the officers of the Company and other key Employees eligible to receive Performance Grants. At the time each Performance Grant is made, the Committee shall establish the Performance Period, the Performance Measure and the targets to be attained relative to such Performance Measure (the "Performance Goals") in respect of such Performance Grant. The number of shares of Common Stock and/or the amount of cash earned and payable in settlement of a Performance Grant shall be determined at the end of the Performance Period (a "Performance Award").
(a) ELIGIBILITY AND TERMS.
The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued pursuant to Performance Grants shall be 3.75 million. The maximum number of shares which may be the subject of Performance Grants made to any Participant in respect of any Performance Period or during any calendar year shall be 200,000. The maximum amount any Participant may receive during any calendar year as Performance Awards pursuant to Performance Grants shall not exceed $10 million, determined using the Fair Market Value of such Performance Awards as at the last day of the applicable Performance Period or Periods or as at date or dates of the payment thereof, whichever is higher.
(b) LIMITATIONS ON GRANTS AND AWARDS.
Each Performance Grant shall provide that, in order for a Participant to receive an Award of all or a portion of the Units subject to such Performance Grant, the Company must achieve certain Performance Goals over a designated Performance Period having a minimum duration of one year, with attainment of the Performance Goals determined using a specific Performance Measure. The Performance Goals and Performance Period shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall establish a Performance Measure for each Performance Period for determining the portion of the Performance Grant which will be earned or forfeited based on the extent to which the Performance Goals are achieved or exceeded. In setting Performance Goals, the Committee may use a Performance Measure based on any one, or on any combination, of the following Company performance factors as the Committee deems appropriate: (i) Cumulative Net Income Per Share; (ii) Cumulative Net Income; (iii) return on sales; (iv) total shareholder return; (v) return on assets; (vi) economic value added; (vii) cash flow; (viii) return on equity; (ix) cumulative operating income (which shall equal consolidated sales minus cost of goods sold and selling, administrative and general expense); (x) operating income before depreciation and amortization; and (xi) return on invested capital. Performance Goals may include minimum, maximum and target levels of performance, with the size of Performance Award based on the level attained. Once established by the Committee and specified in the grant agreement, and if and to the extent provided in or required by the grant agreement, the Performance Goals and the Performance Measure in respect of any Performance Grant (or any Restricted Stock Grant or Stock-Based Grant that requires the attainment of Performance Goals as a condition to the Award) shall not be changed. The Committee may, in its discretion, eliminate or reduce (but not increase) the amount of any Performance Award (or Restricted Stock or Stock-Based Award) that otherwise would be payable to a Participant upon attainment of the Performance Goal(s).
(c) PERFORMANCE GOALS, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND PERFORMANCE PERIODS.
Performance Grants may be made on such terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan, and in such form or forms, as the Committee may from time to time approve. Performance Grants may be made alone, in addition to, in tandem with, or independent of other grants and Awards under the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall, in its discretion, determine the number of Units subject to each Performance Grant made to a Participant and the Committee may impose different terms and conditions on any particular Performance Grant made to any Participant. The Performance Goals, the Performance Period or Periods, and the Performance Measure(s) applicable to a Performance Grant shall be set forth in the relevant grant agreement.
(d) FORM OF GRANTS.
Each Participant shall be entitled to receive payment in an amount equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value (if the Unit is equivalent to a share of Common Stock), or such other value as the Committee shall specify, of the Units earned in respect of such Performance Award. Payment in settlement of a Performance Award may be made in shares of Common Stock, in cash, or in any combination of Common Stock and cash, and at such time or times, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine.
(e) PAYMENT OF AWARDS.
10. OTHER STOCK-BASED GRANTS AND AWARDS.
The Committee may make other grants and Awards pursuant to which Common Stock is, or in the future may be, acquired by Participants, and other grants and Awards to Participants denominated in Common Stock Equivalents or other Units ("Stock-Based Grants"). Such Stock-Based Grants may be granted alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or independent of any other grant made or Award effected under the Plan.
(a) IN GENERAL.
The Committee may make Stock-Based Grants to officers of the Company and other key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority to determine the Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, Stock-Based Grants will be made, the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, to be subject to or covered by each Stock-Based Grant, and any and all other terms and conditions of each Stock-Based Grant.
(b) ELIGIBILITY AND TERMS.
The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issued to Participants pursuant to Stock-Based Grants made and Awards effected pursuant to this Section 10 shall not exceed 500,000. No Participant shall receive more than 50,000 shares of Common Stock in settlement of Stock-Based Awards during any calendar year. The maximum amount any Participant may receive in Stock-Based Awards during any calendar year shall not exceed $4 million, determined using the Fair Market Value of any shares of Common Stock delivered in payment of the Stock-Based Awards on the date or dates of the payment thereof.
(c) LIMITATIONS.
Stock-Based Grants may be made in such form or forms and on such terms and conditions, including the attainment of specific Performance Goals, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall approve. Payment of Stock-Based Awards may be made in cash, in shares of Common Stock, or in any combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, and at such time or times, as the Committee shall determine.
(d) FORM OF GRANTS; PAYMENT OF AWARDS.
11. DEFERRALS.
The Committee may, whether at the time of grant or at anytime thereafter prior to payment or settlement, require a Participant to defer, or permit (subject to such conditions as the Committee may from time to time establish) a Participant to elect to defer, receipt of all or any portion of any payment of cash or shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be due to such Participant in payment or settlement of any Award under the Plan. If any such deferral is required by the Committee (or is elected by the Participant with the permission of the Committee), the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals. The Committee may provide for the payment or crediting of interest, at such rate or rates as it shall in its discretion deem appropriate, on such deferred amounts credited in cash and the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents in respect of deferred amounts credited in Common Stock Equivalents. Deferred amounts may be paid in a lump sum or in installments in the manner and to the extent permitted, and in accordance with rules and procedures established, by the Committee.
12. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF GRANTS AND AWARDS.
No grant or Award under the Plan, and no right or interest therein, shall be (i) assignable, alienable or transferable by a Participant, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or (ii) subject to any obligation, or the lien or claims of any creditor, of any Participant, or (iii) subject to any lien, encumbrance or claim of any party made in respect of or through any Participant, however arising. During the lifetime of a Participant, Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights are exercisable only by, and shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights or in settlement of other Awards will be issued only to, and other payments in settlement of any Award will be payable only to, the Participant or his or her legal representative. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize written designations of beneficiaries and authorize Participants to designate beneficiaries with the authority to exercise Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted to a Participant in the event of his or her death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and on and subject to such terms and conditions as it shall deem appropriate, which terms and conditions shall be set forth in the related grant agreement: (i) authorize a Participant to transfer all or a portion of any Non-Qualified Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right, as the case may be, granted to such Participant; provided, that in no event shall any transfer be made to any person or persons other than such Participant's spouse, children or grandchildren, or a trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more such persons, which transfer must be made as a gift and without any consideration; and (ii) provide for the transferability of a particular grant or Award pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. All other transfers and any retransfer by any permitted transferee are prohibited and any such purported transfer shall be null and void. Each Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right which becomes the subject of permitted transfer (and the Participant to whom it was granted by the Company) shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were in effect immediately prior to such permitted transfer. The Participant shall remain responsible to the Company for the payment of all withholding taxes incurred as a result of any exercise of such Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right. In no event shall any permitted transfer of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right create any right in any party in respect of any Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right or other grant or Award, other than the rights of the qualified transferee in respect of such Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right specified in the related grant agreement.
.
13. CHANGE IN CONTROL
In the event of a Change in Control (as defined below) of the Company, except as the Board of Directors comprised of a majority of Independent Directors may expressly provide otherwise, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary: (i) all Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights then outstanding shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control, whether or not then exercisable; (ii) all restrictions and conditions in respect of all Restricted Stock Grants then outstanding shall be deemed satisfied as of the date of the Change in Control; and (iii) all Performance Grants and Stock-Based Grants shall be deemed to have been fully earned, at the maximum amount of the award opportunity specified in the grant agreement, as of the date of the Change in Control.
(a) EFFECT ON GRANTS.
A "Change in Control" of the Company shall occur when: (i) any Person (or group of Persons acting together or in concert) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's securities (including its Common Stock and any other voting securities) then outstanding; or (ii) the shareholders of the Company approve a definitive agreement for a merger involving the Company and/or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries which would result in the Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger continuing to represent less than fifty percent of the voting power of the Company outstanding immediately after such merger, or approve a merger, consolidation or other similar transaction which would result in the Common Stock then outstanding being converted into or exchanged for the securities of any other entity; or (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or (iv) the Independent Directors no longer constitute a majority of the Board of Directors. "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. "Independent Director" means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors on the date the Plan becomes effective and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to, a consent solicitation relating to the election of directors of the Company, or a director who is a Person, or represents a Person or Group of Persons acting together, who is, or who publicly announces the intention to become, the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the voting power of the Company's outstanding voting securities) whose election to the Board of Directors, or nomination for election to the Board of Directors by the Company's shareholders, was approved or recommended by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office who either (i) were directors on the date the Plan becomes effective or (ii) were elected or nominated for election as a director by a Board of Directors comprised of a majority of directors in office on the date this Plan becomes effective and/or their successors whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was previously so approved or recommended by a Board of Directors comprised of a majority of Independent Directors. Persons shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company and its Affiliates, (ii) the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (iii) underwriters temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities by the Company.
(b) CHANGE IN CONTROL DEFINED.
14. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
The Board of Directors may terminate the Plan at any time, except with respect to grants then outstanding. The Board of Directors may amend the Plan at any time and from time to time in such respects as the Board of Directors may deem necessary or appropriate without approval of the shareholders, unless such approval is necessary in order to comply with applicable laws, including the Exchange Act and the Code. In no event may the Board of Directors amend the Plan without the approval of the shareholders to (i) increase the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued pursuant to the Plan, (ii) increase any limitation set forth in the Plan on the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued, or the aggregate value of Awards which may be made, in respect of any type of grant to all Participants during the term of the Plan or to any Participant during any specified period, (iii) reduce the minimum exercise price for Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, or (iv) change the Performance Measure criteria identified at Section 9(c) of the Plan.
15. MISCELLANEOUS.
All Awards under the Plan will be made subject to any applicable withholding for taxes of any kind. The Company shall have the right to deduct from any amount payable under the Plan, including delivery of shares of Common Stock to be made under the Plan, all federal, state, city, local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment and to take such other actions as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes. If shares of Common Stock are used to satisfy withholding taxes, such shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value thereof on the date when the withholding for taxes is required to be made. The Company shall have the right to require a Participant to pay cash to satisfy withholding taxes as a condition to the payment of any amount (whether in cash or shares of Common Stock) under the Plan.
(a) WITHHOLDING TAXES.
Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the making of any grant or Award shall confer upon any Employee any right to continued employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment of any Employee at any time, with or without cause.
(b) NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT.
The Plan shall be unfunded and the Company shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards under the Plan. Any liability of the Company to any person with respect to any Award under the Plan shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations that may be effected pursuant to the Plan. No such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property of the Company.
(c) UNFUNDED PLAN.
The Committee is authorized to cause to be established a trust agreement or several trust agreements whereunder the Committee may make payments of amounts due or to become due to Participants in the Plan.
(d) PAYMENTS TO TRUST.
In the event a Participant terminates his or her employment with the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason whatsoever, and within eighteen (18) months after the date thereof accepts employment with any competitor of, or otherwise engages in competition with, the Company, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may require such Participant to return, or (if not received) to forfeit, to the Company the economic value of any Award which is realized or obtained (measured at the date of exercise, vesting or payment) by such Participant (i) at any time after the date which is six months prior to the date of such Participant's termination of employment with the Company or (ii) during such other period as the Committee may determine. The provisions of this Section 15(e) shall cease to have any force or effect whatsoever immediately upon the occurrence of any Change in Control described at Section 13 hereof.
(e) ENGAGING IN COMPETITION WITH COMPANY.
Payments and other benefits received by a Participant under an Award made pursuant to the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of any termination indemnity or severance pay law of any country and shall not be included in, nor have any effect on, the determination of benefits under any pension or other employee benefit plan or similar arrangement provided by the Company or any Subsidiary, unless (i) expressly so provided by such other plan or arrangement or (ii) the Committee expressly determines that an Award or a portion thereof should be included as recurring compensation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall prohibit the Company or any Subsidiary from establishing other special awards, incentive compensation plans, compensation programs and other similar arrangements providing for the payment of performance, incentive or other compensation to Employees. Payments and benefits provided to any Employee under any other plan, including, without limitation, any stock option, stock award, restricted stock, deferred compensation, savings, retirement or other benefit plan or arrangement, shall be governed solely by the terms of such other plan.
(f) OTHER COMPANY BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PROGRAMS.
In no event shall the Company be obligated to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock if such issuance or delivery shall constitute a violation of any provisions of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or securities exchange. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued under the Plan unless counsel for the Company shall be satisfied that such issuance will be in compliance with all applicable Federal and state securities laws and regulations and all requirements of any securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed.
(g) SECURITIES LAW RESTRICTIONS.
Each Participant receiving a grant under the Plan shall enter into a grant agreement with the Company in a form specified by the Committee agreeing to the terms and conditions of the grant and such related matters as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine.
(h) GRANT AGREEMENTS.
In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan.
(i) SEVERABILITY.
The Plan shall be governed by and construed in
(j) GOVERNING LAW.
accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio.


