FILE:GT/GT-8K-20071226084741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On December 21, 2007, T&WA Inc., a tire mounting business that is 49% owned by The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Company"), sold substantially all of its assets to EnovaPremier, LLC consistent with the Companys previously announced strategy to focus on its core consumer and commercial tire businesses. T&WA is a variable interest entity that is consolidated with the Company under generally accepted accounting principles. As a result of the sale, the Company expects to record an after-tax, non-cash loss of $30 to $35 million, primarily relating to a loss on the sale of the assets, in the fourth quarter of 2007, subject to post-closing adjustments. A copy of the news release announcing the sale is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Safe Harbor Statement Certain information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including tho se statements regarding the expected amounts of charges incurred as a result of the sale. All forward-looking statements are based on managements estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. There are a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control, which could affect its operations, performance, business strategy and results and could cause its actual results and experience to differ materially from the assumptions, expectations and objectives expressed in any forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to the risks and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. In addition, any forward- looking statements represent managements estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing managements estimates as of any subsequent date. While the Company may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if managements estimates change.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 News release, dated December 24, 2007
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
Corporate Headquarters: 1144 East Market Street, Akron, Ohio 44316-0001 Media Website: www.GoodyearNewsRoom.com
MEDIA CONTACT: Keith Price
330-289-0115
ANALYST CONTACT: Greg Dooley
330-796-6704
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
#23546fi.1207
AKRON, Ohio, December 24, 2007  The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company today announced that T&WA Inc., a tire mounting business based in Louisville, Ky., has sold substantially all of its assets to EnovaPremier, LLC. Goodyear has had a minority ownership interest in T&WA since 1999.
T&WA and EnovaPremier have not disclosed the terms of the transaction.
Goodyear anticipates recording an after-tax, non-cash loss of $30 million to $35 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of the transaction, subject to post-closing adjustments.
The company said T&WA's exit from the tire and wheel assembly business is consistent with Goodyear's previously announced strategy to focus on its core consumer and commercial tire businesses. T&WA is a variable interest entity that is consolidated with Goodyear under generally accepted accounting principles.
T&WA, a minority business enterprise that was founded in 1995, supplies mounted and balanced tire and wheel assemblies to auto manufacturers. The business operates facilities in Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky and Michigan.
Goodyear is one of the world's largest tire companies. The company employs about 70,000 people and manufactures its products in more than 60 facilities in 26 countries around the world. For more information about Goodyear, go to .
www.goodyear.com/corporate
Certain information contained in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those statements regarding the expected amounts of charges incurred as a result of the sale. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. There are a variety of factors, many of which are beyond Goodyear's control, which could affect its operations, performance, business strategy and results and could cause its actual results and experience to differ materially from the assumptions, expectations and objectives expressed in any forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to the risks and other factors described in Goodyear's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Goodyear's annual reports on
Form 10-K
, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
and current reports on
Form 8-K
. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent management's estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing management's estimates as of any subsequent date. While Goodyear may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Goodyear specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if management's estimates change.


