FILE:GT/GT-8K-20070413165511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
(e) On April 10, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Company"), upon recommendation of the Company's Compensation Committee, amended and restated The Goodyear Employee Severance Plan for Salaried Employees originally adopted in 1989 and renamed it the Goodyear Continuity Plan for Salaried Employees (the "Plan"). The Plan provides severance benefits to certain of the Company's salaried employees, including its executive officers, if their employment is terminated during certain periods before or within two years following a change in control of the Company.
     The Plan divides the Company's salaried employees into three groups: Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3. Tier 1 generally includes all of the Company's elected officers, including the named executive officers, and other employees who participate in the Company's Executive Performance Plan (the "EPP Plan"); Tier 2 generally includes all salaried employees who participate in the Company's Performance Recognition Plan (the "PRP Plan") other than Tier 1 employees; and Tier 3 generally includes all other U.S.-based, full-time salaried employees who participate in the Company's Employee Savings Plan for Salaried Employees. The Plan provides the following benefits to salaried employees in each tier:
 
     The foregoing description of the Plan is a general description only and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1   The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Continuity Plan for Salaried Employees
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.01. History of the Plan
1.02. Effective Date
 
2.01. Definitions.
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless a contrary meaning is clearly appropriate from the context
 
 
 
 
 
2.02. Construction
As used in the Plan
 
3.01. In General
An Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance shall be eligible for benefits under either Section 3.02 or Section 3.03, below. No Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive benefits under both Section 3.02 and Section 3.03, below, for any one Severance, and any benefits provided under either Section 3.02 or Section 3.03 are subject to offset as provided in Section 6.10. An Eligible Employee who terminates employment under circumstances that do not constitute a Severance shall not receive any benefits under the Plan.
3.02. Severance Following Hostile Change in Control
The provisions of this Section 3.02 apply to any Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control. Payment of all benefits under this Section 3.02 are subject to the Eligible Employee timely executing, returning, and not revoking the Severance Agreement and Release pursuant to 3.06.
(a) Severance Payment
Each Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control shall be entitled to receive a Severance Payment equal to twice the sum of (1) such Eligible Employee's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to such Severance, (2) the target annual cash incentive opportunity for the year in which a Severance occurs, or, if higher, in the year a Hostile Change in Control occurs, and (3) if the Eligible Employee is a Tier 1 Employee, the target long-term cash incentive opportunity under the Employer's Executive Performance Plan (or any successor to such plan) for all performance periods outstanding at the time the Severance occurs. For purposes of clause (1) above, annual base salary shall be determined immediately prior to the Severance without regard to any reductions therein that constitute Good Reason.
(b) Retirement Benefits
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 1 Employee, who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control, and who is a participant in the Goodyear Supplementary Pension Plan shall be credited with two additional years of Continuous Service (as defined in the Supplementary Pension Plan) for all purposes under such plan.
(c) Health and Welfare Benefits
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 1 Employee or a Tier 2 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control shall, as of the Severance Date, be entitled to receive continued medical, dental, vision, and life insurance coverage (excluding accident, death, and disability insurance) for the Eligible Employee and the Eligible Employee's eligible dependents or, to the extent such coverage is not commercially available, such other arrangements reasonably acceptable to the Eligible Employee, on the same basis as in effect prior to the Hostile Change in Control, the Potential Hostile Change in Control, or
 
the Executive's Termination, whichever is deemed to provide for more substantial benefits, for a period ending on the earlier of (1) two years or (2) the commencement of comparable coverage by the Eligible Employee with a subsequent employer
(d) Outplacement
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 1 Employee or a Tier 2 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control shall, as of the Severance Date, be entitled to outplacement services to be provided by a professional outplacement provider selected by the Eligible Employee; provided, however, that the cost of such outplacement services shall not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000).
(e) Legal Fees
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 1 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Hostile Change in Control shall, as of the Severance Date, be entitled to be paid or reimbursed for reasonable legal fees (including without limitation, any and all court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by the Eligible Employee in connection with or as a result of any claim, action or proceeding brought by the Company, any other Employer or the Eligible Employee with respect to or arising out of this Plan; provided, however, that the Company shall have no obligation to pay any such legal fees, if (1) in the case of an action brought by the Eligible Employee, the Company or any other Employer is successful in establishing with the court that the Eligible Employee's action was frivolous or otherwise without any reasonable legal or factual basis; or (2) in connection with any such claim, action or proceeding arising out of Section 3.06.
3.03. Severance Following Change in Control
The provisions of this Section 3.03 apply to any Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance following a Change in Control or a Potential Change in Control. Except as provided in Section 3.03(c), payment of all benefits under this Section 3.03 are subject to the Eligible Employee timely executing, returning, and not revoking the Severance Agreement and Release pursuant to Section 3.06.
(a) Tier 1 Employees
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 1 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Change in Control or a Potential Change in Control shall be entitled to receive the same benefits as would be provided pursuant to Section 3.02 had such Severance occurred following a Hostile Change in Control.
 
(b) Tier 2 Employees
(1) Severance Payment
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 2 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Change in Control or a Potential Change in Control shall be entitled to receive a Severance Payment equal to the sum of (A) such Eligible Employee's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to such Severance and (B) the target annual cash incentive opportunity for the year in which a Severance occurs, or, if higher, in the year a Potential Change in Control or in the absence thereof, a Change in Control occurs. For purposes of clause (A) above, annual base salary shall be determined immediately prior to the Severance without regard to any reductions therein that constitute Good Reason.
(2) Other Benefits
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 2 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Change in Control or a Potential Change in Control shall be entitled to receive the same benefits as would be provided pursuant to Sections 3.02(c) and (d) had such Severance occurred following a Hostile Change in Control, except that the continued health and welfare benefits provided pursuant to Section 3.02(c) shall be provided for a maximum period of one year following the Severance rather than for two years.
(c) Tier 3 Employees
Each Eligible Employee who is a Tier 3 Employee and who incurs a Severance following a Change in Control or a Potential Change in Control shall not be entitled to receive any severance benefits under the Plan.
3.04. Timing of Severance Payments
(a) In General
The Severance Payment shall be paid to a Severed Employee in a cash lump sum on the 20th day following the later of (a) the Severance Date, (b) the date on which the Company receives an executed Severance Agreement and Release from such Severed Employee and (c) the date of expiration of any revocation period applicable to such Severed Employee's Severance Agreement and Release.
(b) Application of Section 409A of the Code
 
3.05. Parachute Payments
(a) Tier 1 Employees
 
 
(b) Tier 2 Employees and Tier 3 Employees
If any payment or benefit received or to be received by a Tier 2 Employee or a Tier 3 Employee from the Company pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise (the "Payments") would be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by section 4999 of the Code, the Eligible Employee's benefit under the Plan shall be reduced to an amount equal to 2.99 times the Eligible Employee's "base amount" (within the meaning of section 280G of the Code) minus the value of all other payments that would be deemed to be "parachute payments" within the meaning of section 280G of the Code; provided, however, that the reduction provided by this Section 3.05(b) shall not be made if it would result in a smaller aggregate after-tax payment to the Eligible Employee (taking into account all applicable federal, state and local taxes including the excise tax under section 4999 of the Code).
3.06. Severance Agreement and Release
No Severed Employee shall be eligible to receive a Severance Payment or other benefits under the Plan unless he or she first timely executes, returns to the Company, and does not revoke the Severance Agreement and Release, substantially in the form attached in Appendix I to the Plan.
3.07. Survival
The provisions of the Severance Agreement and Release and, following an Eligible Employee's Severance, the provisions of Section 3.05 shall survive the termination or modification of the Plan and the Eligible Employee's termination of employment with the Employer.
 
4.01. In General
 
4.02. Claims for Benefits
(a) Filing a Claim
An Eligible Employee who wishes to file a claim for benefits under the Plan shall file his or her claim in writing with the Plan Administrator.
(b) Review of a Claim
The Plan Administrator shall, within 90 days after receipt of such written claim (unless special circumstances require an extension of time, but in no event more than 180 days after such receipt), send a written notification to the Eligible Employee as to its disposition. If the claim is wholly or partially denied, such written notification shall (1) state the specific reason or reasons for the denial, (2) make specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (3) provide a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Eligible Employee to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (4) set forth the procedure by which the Eligible Employee may appeal the denial of his or her claim, including, without limitation, a statement of the claimant's right to bring an action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on appeal.
(c) Appeal of a Denied Claim
If an Eligible Employee wishes to appeal the denial of his or her claim, he or she must request a review of such denial by making application in writing to the Plan Administrator within 60 days after receipt of such denial. Such Eligible Employee (or his or her duly authorized legal representative) may, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, review any documents pertinent to his or her claim, and submit in writing, issues and comments in support of his or her position. An Eligible Employee who fails to file an appeal within the 60-day period set forth in this Section 4.02(c) shall be prohibited from doing so at a later date or from bringing an action under ERISA.
(d) Review of a Claim on Appeal
Within 60 days after receipt of a written appeal (unless special circumstances, such as the need to hold a hearing, require an extension of time, but in no event more than 120 days after such receipt), the Plan Administrator shall notify the Eligible Employee of the final decision. The final decision shall be in writing and shall include (1) specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, (2) specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based, (3) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents relevant to the claim for benefits, and (4) a statement describing the claimant's right to bring an action under section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
5.01. In General
The Plan may be amended or terminated by the Board at any time; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 5.02, below, any termination of the Plan or modification of the Plan in any material manner adverse to the interests of any Eligible Employee (including, without limitation, any adverse changes to a person's status as an Eligible Employee) without such Eligible Employee's written consent shall be void and of no force and effect with respect to any Eligible Employee who does not provide such written consent if such action is taken during any of the following periods and is not required by law:
This Plan shall terminate automatically two years and one day after a Change in Control or, if later, when all benefits payable under the Plan are paid. No Plan termination shall, without such Eligible Employee's written consent, adversely affect any material rights of any Eligible Employee which accrued under this Plan prior to such termination.
5.02. Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
Notwithstanding Section 5.01, above, the Plan shall, to the extent possible, be administered to prevent the adverse tax consequences described in section 409A(a)(1) of the Code from applying to any payment made under the Plan, and any provision of the Plan that does not further this purpose shall be severed from the Plan and of no force and effect unless the General Counsel and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company, in their discretion, determine that the provision shall apply.
 
6.01. No Assignment
Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, in whole or in part, either directly or by operation of law or otherwise, including, without limitation, by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge or in any manner; no attempted assignment or transfer thereof shall be effective; and no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be liable for, or subject to, any obligation or liability of such Eligible Employee. When a payment is due under this Plan to a Severed Employee who is unable to care for his or her affairs, payment may be made directly to his or her legal guardian or personal representative.
6.02. Notice Period
If an Employer is obligated by law, contract, policy or otherwise to pay severance, a termination indemnity, notice pay, or the like, or if an Employer is obligated by law to provide advance notice of separation (""), then any Severance Payment hereunder shall be reduced by the amount of any such severance pay, termination indemnity, notice pay or the like, as applicable, and by the amount of any compensation received during any Notice Period.
Notice Period
6.03. No Right to Employment
Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee, or any person whomsoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Employer, and all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
6.04. Severability
If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
6.05. Death of Severed Employee
This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties, including, without limitation, each Eligible Employee, present and future, and any successor to the Employer. If a Severed Employee shall die while any amount would still be payable to such Severed Employee under the Plan if the Severed Employee had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to the executor, personal representative or administrators of the Severed Employee's estate.
 
6.06. Headings
The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
6.07. Unfunded Plan
The Plan shall not be funded. No Eligible Employee shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of any Employer that may be applied by the Employer to the payment of benefits or other rights under this Plan.
6.08. Notices
Any notice or other communication required or permitted pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall be in writing and shall be given when delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the intended recipient at his, her or its last known address.
6.09. Withholding
An Employer shall be entitled to withhold from amounts to be paid to the Severed Employee hereunder any federal, state or local withholding or other taxes or charges which it from time to time reasonably believes it is required to withhold.
6.10. No Duplication
Nothing in the Plan shall require the Employer to provide any payment that duplicates any payment, benefit, or grant that an Eligible Employee is entitled to receive under any Employer compensation or benefit plan, award agreement, or other arrangement (including an employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement, or works council agreement) or any non-U.S. law under which an Eligible Employee is entitled to severance benefits. Any severance benefit provided under any Employer compensation or benefit plan, award agreement, or other arrangement (including an employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement, or works council agreement) or any non-U.S. law shall offset, on a dollar for dollar basis, any benefits owed under the Plan.
6.11. Compensation
Except to the extent explicitly provided in this Plan, any awards made under any Employer compensation or benefit plan or program shall be governed by the terms of that plan or program and any applicable award agreement thereunder as in effect from time to time. The amounts paid or provided under the Plan shall not be treated as compensation for purposes of determining any benefits payable under any Employer retirement, life insurance, or other employee benefit plan.
6.12. Governing Law
This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Ohio (not including any Ohio law that would require the substantive law of another jurisdiction to apply), to the extent not preempted by federal law, which shall otherwise control.
 
6.13. ERISA
Because the Plan is not intended to provide retirement income or result in the systematic deferral of income to termination of employment, the Plan is intended to be an "employee welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of section 3(1) of the ERISA, and not an "employee pension benefit plan" within the meaning of section 3(2) of ERISA. However, to the extent that the Plan (without regard to this Section 6.13) is determined to be an "employee pension benefit plan" because (a) with respect to certain participants the Plan provides for payments in excess of the amount specified in 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3-2(b) (the "") and (b) the facts and circumstances indicate the Plan (without regard to this Section 6.13) is not otherwise an "employee welfare benefit plan," then the following provisions shall apply: The Plan shall be treated as two plans, one of which provides the benefits required by Article 3 not in excess of the safe harbor described in the Severance Pay Regulation and the other of which provides for all other payments and benefits required by Article 3 pursuant to a plan maintained "primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees" as described in section 201(2) of ERISA.
Severance Pay Regulation
 
APPENDIX I
          This SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE (this "") is made as of [___], 200[_] (the ""), by and between The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, with its principal place of business at 1144 East Market Street Akron, Ohio 44316-0001 (which together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, if any, will hereinafter collectively be called "") and [___], an individual residing at [___] ("").
Agreement
Effective Date
Employer
Employee
          WHEREAS, The Goodyear Continuity Plan for Salaried Employees (as such plan may be amended from time to time, the "") sets forth certain rights, benefits and obligations of the parties arising out of Employee's employment by Employer and the severance of such employment; and
Plan
          WHEREAS, Employee recognizes that this Agreement will automatically be revoked and Employee shall forfeit any benefit to which he may be entitled under the Plan unless Employee submits an executed copy of this Agreement to the Employer on or before [___].
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Employer and Employee agree as follows:
          1. The relationship between Employee and Employer shall terminate as of ___(the "").
Termination of Employment Relationship.
Separation Date
          2. . In consideration of Employee's undertakings set forth in this Agreement, Employer will pay Employee $[___] in accordance with the terms of the Plan, plus such other benefits as are provided under the terms of the Plan. Such payment and benefits will be less all applicable deductions (including, without limitation, any federal, state or local tax withholdings). Such payment and benefits are contingent upon the execution of this Agreement by Employee and Employee's compliance with all terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. Employee agrees that if this Agreement does not become effective, Employer shall not be required to make any further payments or provide any further benefits to Employee pursuant to this Agreement or the Plan and shall be entitled to recover all payments and be reimbursed for all benefits already made or provided by it (including interest thereon).
Employee Severance
          3. In consideration of the obligations of Employer described in Paragraph 2 above, Employee hereby completely releases and forever discharges Employer, its related corporations, divisions and entities, and its and each of their officers, directors, employees and agents (collectively referred to as the "Releasees") from all claims, rights, demands, actions, liabilities and causes of action of any kind whatsoever, known and unknown, which Employee may have or have ever had against the Releasees ("") including without limitation all claims arising from or connected with Employee's employment by the Employer, whether based in tort or contract (express or implied) or on federal, state or local law or regulation. Employee has been advised that Employee's release does not apply to any rights or
Release of Employer.
claims
 
claims that may arise after the Effective Date. This Agreement shall not affect Employee's rights under the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act to have a judicial determination of the validity of the release contained herein.
          4. . Employee understands and agrees that this is a final release and that Employee is waiving all rights now or in the future to pursue any remedies available under any employment related cause of action against the Releasees, including without limitation claims of wrongful discharge, emotional distress, defamation, harassment, discrimination, retaliation, breach of contract or covenant of good faith and fair dealing, claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (the ""), the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and any other laws and regulations relating to employment.
Acknowledgment
ADEA
1
          5. . Employee represents that Employee has not filed or commenced any proceeding against the Releasees and agrees that at no time in the future will Employee file or maintain any charge, claim or action of any kind, nature and character whatsoever against the Releasees, or cause or knowingly permit any such charge, claim or action to be filed or maintained, in any federal, state or municipal court, administrative agency or other tribunal, arising out of any of the matters covered by Paragraph 3 above, except as to the ADEA. If Employee initiates any lawsuit or other legal proceeding in contravention of this covenant not to sue, except as to ADEA claims, Employee shall be required to immediately repay to Employer the full consideration paid to Employee pursuant to Paragraph 2 above, regardless of the outcome of Employee's legal action.
Covenant Not to Sue
          6. Employee will maintain the fact and terms of this Agreement and any payments made by Employer in strict confidence and will not disclose the same to any other person or entity (except Employee's legal counsel, spouse and accountant) without the prior written consent of Employer. The parties agree that this confidentiality provision is a material term of this Agreement. A violation of the promise of nondisclosure shall be a material breach of this Agreement. It is acknowledged that in the event of such a violation, it will be impracticable or extremely difficult to calculate the actual damages and, therefore, the parties agree that upon a breach, in addition to whatever rights and remedies Employer may have at law and in equity, Employee will pay to Employer as liquidated damages, and not as a penalty, the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each such breach and each repetition thereof.
Nondisclosure of Agreement.
          7. .
Return of Property; Confidentiality; Inventions
                (a) Employee represents that Employee does not have in Employee's possession any records, documents, specifications, or any confidential material or any equipment or other property of Employer.
                (b) Employee understands and acknowledges that all Proprietary Information (as defined below) is the sole property of Employer and its assigns. Employee hereby assigns to Employer any rights Employee may have in all Proprietary Information. At all times, Employee
 
 
shall keep in confidence and trust all Proprietary Information, and Employee will not use or disclose any Proprietary Information or anything relating to it without the prior written consent of Employer. Employee represents that Employee has delivered to Employer all materials, documents and data of any nature containing or pertaining to any Proprietary Information and has not taken and will not take with Employee any such materials, documents or data or any reproduction thereof. "" means any information of a confidential or secret nature that may have been learned or developed by Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and which (i) relates to the business of Employer or to the business of any customer or supplier of Employer, or (ii) has been created, discovered or developed by, or has otherwise become known to Employer and has commercial value in the business in which Employer is engaged. By way of illustration, but not limitation, Proprietary Information includes trade secrets, processes, formulas, computer programs, data, know-how, inventions, improvements, techniques, marketing plans, product plans, strategies, forecasts, personnel information and customer lists.
Proprietary Information
                (c) Employee represents that Employee has disclosed or will disclose in confidence to Employer, or any persons designated by it, all Inventions (as defined below) that have been made or conceived or first reduced to practice by Employee during Employee's employment with Employer (or thereafter if Invention uses Proprietary Information of Employer). All such Inventions are the sole and exclusive property of Employer and its assigns, and Employer and its assigns shall have the right to use and/or to apply for patents, copyrights or other statutory or common law protections for such Inventions in any and all countries. Employee agrees to assist Employer in every proper way (but at Employer's expense) to obtain and from time to time enforce patents, copyrights and other statutory or common law protections for such Inventions in any and all countries. To that end, Employee has executed or will execute all documents for use in applying for and obtaining such patents, copyrights and other statutory or common law protections therefore and enforcing same, as Employer may desire, together with any assignments thereof to Employer or to persons designated by Employer. Employer shall compensate Employee at a reasonable rate for any time after the Separation Date actually spent by Employee at Employer's request on such assistance. "" means all inventions, improvements, original works or authorship, formulas, processes, computer programs, techniques, know-how and data, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, made or conceived or first reduced to practice or learned by Employee, whether or not in the course of Employee's employment.
Inventions
          8. . Without limiting the foregoing, Employee agrees that Employee will not make statements or representations to any other person, entity or firm which may cast Employer, or its directors, officers, agents or employees, in an unfavorable light, which are offensive, or which could adversely affect Employer's name or reputation or the name or reputation of any director, officer, agent or employee of Employer. The parties agree that the provisions of this Paragraph 8 are material terms of this Agreement.
Non-Disparagement
          9. Employee agrees that Employee will cooperate with Employer, its agents, and its attorneys with respect to any matters in which Employee was involved during Employee's employment with Employer or about which Employee has information, will provide upon request from Employer all such information or information about any such matter, and will be available to assist with any litigation or potential litigation relating to Employee's actions as an employee of Employer.
Cooperation with Employer.
 
          [10. . Until the [___] anniversary of the Separation Date, Employee agrees not to recruit, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any employee or employees of Employer to terminate their employment with, or otherwise cease their relationship with, Employer.]
Non-Solicitation
2
          [11. . For the period beginning on Employee's Separation Date and ending on the [___] anniversary of Employee's Separation Date, Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of Employer: (a) personally engage in Competitive Activities (as defined below) in the Region (as defined below) or (b) work for, own, manage, operate, control, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or provide consulting or advisory services to, any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or institution engaged in Competitive Activities in the Region, or any company or person affiliated with such person or entity engaged in Competitive Activities in the Region; that Employee's purchase or holding, for investment purposes, of securities of a publicly-traded company shall not constitute "ownership" or "participation in ownership" for purposes of this Paragraph 11 so long as Employee's equity interest in any such company is less than five percent. "" means business activities relating to products or services of the same or similar type as the products or services (1) which are sold (or, pursuant to an existing business plan, will be sold) to customers of Employer, and (2) for which Employee had the responsibility to plan, develop, manage, market, or oversee within the most recent 24 months of Employee's employment with Employer. The "" means anywhere in the world that the Employer engages in the manufacture, distribution or sale of any of the Employer's products.]
Non-Competition
3
provided
Competitive Activities
Region
          12. . This Agreement, and any of the rights hereunder, may not be assigned or otherwise transferred, in whole or in part by Employee.
No Assignment By Employee
          13. . Any and all controversies arising out of or relating to the validity, interpretation, enforceability, or performance of this Agreement will be solely and finally settled by means of binding arbitration. Any arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the then-current Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration will be final, conclusive and binding upon the parties. All arbitrator's fees and related expenses shall be divided equally between the parties. Further, each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs incurred in connection with the arbitration.
Arbitration
          14. . Each party acknowledges and agrees that a breach of any term or condition of this Agreement may cause the non-breaching party irreparable harm for which its remedies at law may be inadequate. Each party hereby agrees that the non-breaching party will be entitled, in addition to any other remedies available to it at law or in equity, to seek injunctive relief to prevent the breach or threatened breach of the other party's obligations hereunder.
Equitable Relief
 
 
Notwithstanding Paragraph 14, above, the parties may seek injunctive relief through the civil court rather than through private arbitration if necessary to prevent irreparable harm.
          15. . The execution of this Agreement and the performance of its terms shall in no way be construed as an admission of guilt or liability by either Employee or Employer. Both parties expressly disclaim any liability for claims by the other.
No Admission
          16. Employee has been advised to consult an attorney before signing this Agreement. Employee acknowledges that Employee has been given the opportunity to consult counsel of Employee's choice before signing this Agreement, and that Employee is fully aware of the contents and legal effect of this Agreement. Employee acknowledges that Employer has provided Employee with a list of the job titles and ages of all employees being terminated on the Separation Date as well as the ages of the employees with the same titles who are not being terminated (""). Employee has been given [21/45] days from receipt of the OWBPA Information to consider this Agreement.
Consultation With Counsel and Time to Consider.
OWBPA Information
          18.
Right to Revoke.
          (a) Employee and Employer have seven days from the date Employee signs this Agreement to revoke it in a writing delivered to the other Party. After that seven-day period has elapsed, this Agreement is final and binding on both Parties.
          (b) Employee acknowledges and understands that if Employee fails to provide the Employer with an executed copy of this Agreement by the date indicated in paragraph C on the first page of this Agreement, Employer's offer to enter into this Agreement and/or its execution of this Agreement is automatically revoked and Employee shall forfeit all rights under the Plan.
          17. . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, although Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Agreement to be reasonable for the purpose of preserving Employer's goodwill and proprietary rights, if any provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law. It is expressly understood and agreed that although Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in Paragraph 12 to be reasonable, if a final determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the duration or region or any other restriction contained in such paragraph is unenforceable against you, such paragraph shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum duration and region and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.
Severability
          18. . In accordance with Paragraph 16 above, this Agreement will be void if not executed by Employee and received by Employer on or before [___].
Deadline for Execution
          19. This Agreement together with the Plan represents the complete understanding of Employee and Employer with respect to the subject matter herein.
Entire Agreement.
 
          21. Notices or other communications given pursuant to this Agreement shall be given in accordance with the Plan.
Notices.
          22. This Agreement will be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of [Ohio].
Governing Law.
          23. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
          BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU STATE THAT:
                YOU HAVE READ THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE HAD SUFFICIENT TIME TO CONSIDER ITS TERMS;
                YOU UNDERSTAND ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND KNOW THAT YOU ARE GIVING UP IMPORTANT RIGHTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THOSE ARISING UNDER THE ADEA;
                YOU AGREE WITH EVERYTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT;
                YOU ARE AWARE OF YOUR RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY BEFORE SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF SUCH RIGHT;
                YOU HAVE SIGNED THIS AGREEMENT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY; AND
                THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES A RELEASE BY YOU OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS AS OF ITS EFFECTIVE DATE, AND NO CLAIMS ARISING AFTER ITS EFFECTIVE DATE ARE WAIVED OR RELEASED IN THIS AGREEMENT.


