FILE:GT/GT-8K-20081010162921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On October 7, 2008, Stephanie A. Streeter, former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Banta Corporation, was elected to the Board of Directors of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company ("Goodyear"). Her term will expire at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Ms. Streeter has not yet been appointed to any committees of the Board of Directors. Ms. Streeter will receive the compensation for non-employee directors described in Goodyear's Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2008. A copy of the news release announcing Ms. Streeters election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. (e) In order to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to make other technical changes, the Compensation Committee of Goodyears Board of Directors approved amendments to several grant agreements and approved a cash performance unit grant agreement under the 2008 Performance Plan on October 6, 2008 and Goodyears Board of Directors approved amendments to several of Goodyears nonqualified employee benefit plans on October 7, 2008. In addition, Goodyear's Board of Directors approved the amendment of the Outside Directors Equity Participation Plan ("ODEPP") to provide for the quarterly issuance of restricted stock units under the 2008 Performance Plan in lieu of the stock equivalent units previously granted under the ODEPP. The restricted stock units will be paid to directors in shares of common stock on the fifth business day of the quarter following the quarter during which the director leaves the Board. Any stock equivalent units accrued to an ODEPP account will continue to be converted to a dollar value at the closing market price of Goodyears common stock on the later of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the month during which the director leaves the Board or (ii) the fifth business day of the year following the year during which the director leaves the Board, and paid out as provided in the ODEP P.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit 99.1  News release, dated October 7, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

CONTACT: Keith Price
330-796-1863
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
#23645pe.1008
AKRON, Ohio, October 7, 2008  Stephanie A. Streeter, former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Banta Corporation, has been elected to the Board of Directors of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.
"Stephanie Streeter is a respected business leader who led sales and earnings growth for a successful consumer products company and drove record revenue growth during challenging times with a global printing and supply chain management firm," said Goodyear Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert J. Keegan. "Her business leadership experience and marketing knowledge will be of significant value to our board of directors."
Streeter joined Banta in January 2001 as president and chief operating officer, serving on the Board of Directors beginning in July 2001. She was elected chief executive officer in 2002 and chairman in 2004. Prior to joining Banta, Streeter was chief operating officer of Idealab.
Previously, Streeter spent 14 years at Avery Dennison Corporation in a variety of product and business management positions including director of marketing for computer products, vice president and general manager of the label division and of the Avery Dennison Brands business. She was group vice president of worldwide office products from 1996 to 2000.
Prior to joining Avery Dennison, Streeter held management positions with Decision Data Computer Corporation and Xerox Corporation.
Streeter, 51, holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Stanford University. She is a director of Kohl's Corporation, the U.S. Olympic Committee, the Green Bay Packers, Chicago 2016 and Catalyst.
The election of Streeter brings the size of Goodyear's board to 12 members.
Goodyear is one of the world's largest tire companies. Fortune magazine named Goodyear the World's Most Admired Motor Vehicle Parts Company in its 2008 list of the World's Most Admired Companies. The publication ranked Goodyear No. 1 in innovation, people management, use of assets and global orientation. The company is also listed on Forbes magazine's list of the Most Respected Companies in America and its list of the Most Trustworthy Companies in America and CRO magazine's ranking of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens. Goodyear employs about 70,000 people and manufactures its products in more than 60 facilities in 25 countries around the world. For more information about Goodyear, go to www.goodyear.com/corporate.


