FILE:GT/GT-8K-20111114090306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 14, 2011, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Company") named Daniel L. Smytka as President of its Asia Pacific Region. Mr. Smytka succeeds Pierre E. Cohade, who will be leaving the Company at the end of the year, in that role. Mr. Smytka joined Goodyear in October 2008 as Vice President of the Asia Pacific Regions consumer tire business, and served most recently as Vice President and Program Manager for the Companys new plant in China. A copy of Goodyears news release announcing Mr. Smytkas appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit 99.1  News release, dated November 14, 2011
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

CONTACT: Ed Markey
330-796-8801
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AKRON, Ohio, November 14, 2011  The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company today announced that Daniel L. Smytka has been named president of the company's Asia Pacific business. Smytka, a seasoned business professional with a career of more than 25 years of leadership experience, takes the role after successfully running Goodyear's Asia consumer business and subsequently leading the relocation and expansion of the company's factory in China. He will succeed Pierre Cohade, who has decided to leave Goodyear and move to a new opportunity that will be announced at a later date.
"Dan is a strong and talented business professional and the ideal leader to take our Asia business to the next level of performance," said Richard J. Kramer, Goodyear's Chairman, President and CEO. "Not only does he know the tire industry, he has experience in almost every aspect of Goodyear's operations and brings with him a track record of outstanding leadership performance. The sum of Dan's experiences will make him an effective leader in a region that is pivotal to Goodyear's success."
Kramer expressed appreciation for Cohade's contributions to Goodyear's growth in Asia. "Success in the Asia Pacific region, especially in China, is critical to reaching our long-term goals. During Pierre's seven years, we have made significant progress in the region and are well-positioned for further growth. We appreciate Pierre's leadership and thank him for his many contributions at Goodyear." Cohade will remain with the company through the end of the year to assist with the transition.
Smytka, 49, joined Goodyear in 2008 as vice president of the consumer tire business in the company's Asia Pacific region. Previously, his career spanned nearly 20 years of progressively larger operational, consumer and commercial business leadership roles with General Electric. While at GE, Smytka spent three years in China, including serving as president of GE's consumer and industrial business for the Asia Pacific region. Smytka worked at United Technologies Corporation immediately prior to joining Goodyear.
Goodyear is one of the world's largest tire companies. It employs approximately 72,000 people and manufactures its products in 54 facilities in 22 countries around the world. Its two Innovation Centers in Akron, Ohio and Colmar-Berg, Luxembourg strive to develop state-of-the-art products and services that set the technology and performance standard for the industry. For more information about Goodyear and its products, go to .
www.goodyear.com
Certain information contained in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There are a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, that affect our operations, performance, business strategy and results and could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the assumptions, expectations and objectives expressed in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to realize anticipated savings and operational benefits from our cost reduction initiatives or to implement successfully other strategic initiatives; increases in the prices paid for raw materials and energy; pension plan funding obligations; actions and initiatives taken by both current and potential competitors; deteriorating economic conditions or an inability to access capital markets; work stoppages, financial difficulties or supply disruptions at our suppliers or customers; the adequacy of our capital expenditures; a labor strike, work stoppage or other similar event; our failure to comply with a material covenant in our debt obligations; potential adverse consequences of litigation involving the company; as well as the effects of more general factors such as changes in general market, economic or political conditions or in legislation, regulation or public policy. Additional factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on
Form 10-K
, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
and current reports on Form 8-K. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change.


