FILE:GT/GT-8K-20120807170823.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 7, 2012, Roderick A. Palmore, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance and Risk Management Officer, and Secretary of General Mills, Inc., was elected to the Board of Directors of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the "Company") to a term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Palmore will join the Finance Committee and the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Palmore will receive the compensation established from time-to-time for non-employee directors. A copy of the news release announcing Mr. Palmores election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit 99.1  News release, dated August 7, 2012
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

CONTACT: Keith Price
330-796-1863
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AKRON, Ohio, August 7, 2012  Roderick A. Palmore, executive vice president, general counsel, chief compliance and risk management officer, and secretary for General Mills, Inc., has been elected to the Board of Directors of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.
"We are pleased to have Rick join the Goodyear Board of Directors," said Goodyear Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Kramer. "His broad business knowledge and public board experience, as well as his strong leadership skills, will be valuable assets to the Goodyear Board and the senior leadership team as we execute our strategic roadmap."
Palmore, 60, joined General Mills' senior leadership team in 2008. In his role, he is responsible for the company's worldwide legal activities, corporate ethics, compliance, and corporate security. From 1996 to 2008, he worked for the Sara Lee Corporation in a variety of legal leadership roles, ultimately becoming executive vice president, general counsel, and secretary. Between 1977 and 1996, he worked for a series of law firms and the U.S. Department of Justice.
Palmore has been recognized by the , and as one of the most influential general counsels in America. He holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Yale University and a J.D. degree from the University of Chicago School of Law. He currently is a director of CBOE Holdings Inc. and is on the executive committee of the Association of General Counsel as its immediate past chairman.
National Law Journal
Inside Counsel Magazine
Corporate Board Member Magazine
The election of Palmore brings the size of Goodyear's board to 11 members.
Goodyear is one of the world's largest tire companies. It employs approximately 72,000 people and manufactures its products in 53 facilities in 22 countries around the world. Its two Innovation Centers in Akron, Ohio and Colmar-Berg, Luxembourg strive to develop state-of-the-art products and services that set the technology and performance standard for the industry. For more information about Goodyear, go to www.goodyear.com/corporate.
-0-


