Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). In North Carolina, regulators and legislators continue to explore the issues related to electric industry restructuring, the 4 Table of Contents development of a competitive, wholesale market and retail competition. However, to date, there has been no significant activity. Dominion plans to continue to participate actively in both the legislative and regulatory processes to ensure an orderly transition from a regulated environment. Gas Industry Dominion Delivery Deregulation is at varying stages in the three states in which Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential and small commercial customers. In Ohio, legislation has not been enacted to require supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion offers an Energy Choice program to customers on its own initiative, in cooperation with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (Ohio Commission). West Virginia legislation currently does not require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets, and Dominion has not voluntarily initiated an Energy Choice program. However, the West Virginia Public Service Commission (West Virginia Commission) recently issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future. In 2002, the West Virginia Commission proposed rules that require that competitive gas service providers be licensed in West Virginia. In addition, the West Virginia Commission is developing rules for a code of conduct between utilities and their marketing affiliates, as well as consumer protection regulations and marketer licensing rules. See Regulated Gas Distribution Operations in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A for additional information. Dominion Energy Dominions large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the countrys major gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions and on the East Coast. Dominions pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system which continues to provide local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers the accessibility of supplies nationwide. Dominion competes with domestic and Canadian pipeline companies and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services for customers. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain longline pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enables Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers. Dominion Exploration & Production Dominion conducts exploration and production operations in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deep water areas of the Gulf of Mexico, and Western Canada. Competitors range from major international oil companies, to smaller, independent producers. Dominion faces significant competition in the bidding for federal offshore leases and in obtaining leases and drilling rights for onshore properties. Since Dominion is the operator of a number of properties, it also faces competition in securing drilling equipment and supplies for exploration and development. In terms of its production activities, Dominion sells most of its deliverable natural gas and oil into short and intermediate term markets. Dominion faces challenges related to the marketing of its natural gas and oil production due to the contraction of participants in the energy marketing industry. In the wake of current industry developments, several energy trading participants have exited the business, reducing the number of active purchasers in the marketplace and reducing Dominions delivery flexibility. However, Dominion owns a large and diverse natural gas and oil portfolio and maintains an active gas and oil marketing presence in its primary production regions which strengthens its knowledge of the marketplace and delivery options. Regulation General Dominion is subject to regulation by the SEC, FERC, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Army Corps of Engineers, and other federal, state and local authorities. 5 Table of Contents State Regulation Electric In Virginia, Dominions retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission. The Virginia Commission has approved a Virginia fuel factor of 1.613 cents per kWh in effect through December 31, 2003. In North Carolina, retail service is subject to cost of service regulation by the North Carolina Utilities Commission (North Carolina Commission). In connection with the North Carolina Commissions approval of the CNG acquisition, Dominion agreed not to request an increase in North Carolina retail electric base rates until 2006, except for certain events that would have a significant financial impact on Dominions electric utility operations. Fuel rates are still subject to change under the annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings. The North Carolina Commission has approved a fuel factor of 1.402 cents per kWh, effective January 1, 2003. Dominions electric utility subsidiary holds certificates of public convenience and necessity authorizing it to construct and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, it may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In August 2002, the Virginia Commission adopted rules relating to competitive electric metering services and consolidated billing by competitive suppliers. Dominion must provide its Virginia electric customers with access to meter functionality and interval meter data beginning January 1, 2003 and implement consolidated billing by competitive suppliers no later than July 1, 2003. For additional information on deregulation in the electric industry, the Virginia Restructuring Act and current rate matters, see Electric Industry in Competition and Regulated Electric Operations in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Gas Dominions gas distribution business subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they operate Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary, Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries seek general rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of return are compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general rate increases, certain of Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. These purchased gas costs are recovered through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. Ohio In February 2002, Dominion filed a report with the Ohio Commission that addressed the results of a payment matching program approved by the Ohio Commission in 2001 and deferral of certain residential customer receivables in excess of the amount already recovered in rates. The report requires no action by the Ohio Commission. Recovery of the deferred amount will be requested in Dominions next rate case. Dominion believes that it will recover those amounts deferred. In November 2002, Dominion filed comments to the Ohio Commissions request for information needed to ensure that Ohio public utilities are not impacted by adverse financial consequences of parent or affiliate company unregulated operations. Dominion informed the Ohio Commission that its affiliate and parent company transactions are governed by the rules of the 1935 Act. The Ohio Commission has not acted on the comments filed or given any indication as to how it will proceed at this time. In December 2002, the Ohio Commission conditionally approved an earlier application by Dominion to implement a four month gas cost recovery (GCR) rate. The Ohio Commission approved the adjustment components of the GCR and directed Dominion to leave the expected gas cost portion of the GCR at the previous level for one more month before filing for a new three month rate. In January 2003, the Ohio Commission approved the settlement of Dominions 2001 GCR financial and management performance audit. The settlement contained no disallowances and provided for a review of the corporate gas supply group expense recovery through the GCR and an internal audit of gas procurement processes and affiliate company gas purchase transactions. Pennsylvania The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (Pennsylvania Commission) accepted a settlement filed by Dominion and other parties to Dominions gas cost recovery proceeding in September 2002. As part of the settlement, the parties agreed that Dominion was following a least cost procurement policy and, as a result, no disallowances occurred. West Virginia In 2001, the West Virginia Commission approved a settlement between Dominion and certain third parties, regarding the costs of gas supplies and increased operating costs. The settlement stipulated that Dominion would receive a $9.5 million increase in gas and non gas 6 Table of Contents revenues and provides for a two year rate moratorium. The new rates took effect on January 1, 2002 and will be in place through December 31, 2003. For additional information on deregulation in the gas industry and current rate matters, see Gas Industry in Competition and Regulated Gas Distribution Operations in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 Dominion is a registered holding company under the 1935 Act. The 1935 Act and related regulations issued by the SEC govern activities of Dominion and its subsidiaries with respect to the issuance and acquisition of securities, acquisition and sale of utility assets, certain transactions among affiliates, engaging in business activities not directly related to the utility or energy business and other matters. Over the past few years, several bills have been introduced in Congress to repeal the 1935 Act, and repeal provisions are currently again pending before Congress. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Electric Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales of electricity and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Dominions electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale market under its market based sales tariff authorized by FERC but has agreed not to make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located within its service territory. For additional discussion on this matter, see Regulated Electric Operations Wholesale Competition in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join a RTO, and FERC encourages RTO formation as a means to foster wholesale market formation. FERC Order No. 2000 requires each public utility that owns or operates transmission facilities to make certain filings with respect to RTO formation, but will rely on voluntary formation of RTOs to advance its energy policies. By joining a RTO, Dominion would transfer operational control of its transmission assets to a RTO, a third party. In September 2002, Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into the PJM South Implementation Agreement. The agreement provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM, transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region, integrate its control area into the PJM energy markets and otherwise facilitate the establishment and operation of PJM as the RTO with respect to Dominions transmission facilities. The agreement also contemplates additional agreements and transmission tariff provisions to be negotiated by the parties and allocates costs of implementation of the agreement among the parties. Dominion intends to file for FERC approval to join PJM in the future. Dominion will also seek authorization from the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission to become a member of PJM at that time. Dominion will incur integration and operating costs associated with joining a RTO. Dominion has deferred certain of those costs for future recovery and is giving further consideration to seeking regulatory approval to defer the balance of such costs. Legislation that would delay entry into a RTO until on or after July 1, 2004 was approved by the Virginia General Assembly in February 2003 and is now awaiting action by the Governor. The proposed legislation also would require Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join a RTO. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its transmission assets to a RTO by January 1, 2005. For additional discussion on this matter, see RTO in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Gas FERC regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. FERC also has jurisdiction over the construction of pipeline and related facilities used in transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. Dominions interstate gas transportation and storage activities are conducted in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC. Dominion is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, which authorizes the establishment and enforcement of federal pipeline safety standards and places jurisdiction of these standards with the Department of Transportation. Competition in the natural gas industry was increased by FERC Order 636, which was issued in 1992. FERC Order 636 requires transmission pipelines to operate as open access transporters and provide transportation and storage services on an equal basis for all gas supplies, whether purchased from Dominion or from another gas supplier. 7 Table of Contents In the spring of 2003, FERC expects to issue new rules governing standards of conduct between interstate electric transmission, gas transporation and storage providers and their energy related affiliates. One goal of FERC is to eliminate the separate standards of conduct regulations for natural gas pipelines and electric transmission utilities and replace these requirements with uniform standards applicable to interstate Transmission Providers of both natural gas and electricity. For additional discussion on this matter, see Interstate Gas Transmission Operations in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Environmental Matters Each operating segment faces substantial regulation and compliance costs with respect to environmental matters. For discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance, see Environmental Matters in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time Dominion may be identified as a potentially responsible party to a Superfund site. The EPA (or a state) can either (a) allow such a party to conduct and pay for a remedial investigation, feasibility study and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial investigation and action and then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each party can be held jointly, severally and strictly liable for all costs. These parties can also bring contribution actions against each other and seek reimbursement from their insurance companies. As a result, Dominion may be responsible for the costs of remedial investigation and actions under the Superfund Act or other laws or regulations regarding the remediation of waste. Dominion does not believe that any currently identified sites will result in significant liabilities. Dominion has determined that it is associated with 20 former manufactured gas plant sites. Studies conducted by other utilities at their former manufactured gas plants have indicated that their sites contain coal tar and other potentially harmful materials. None of the 20 former sites with which Dominion is associated is under investigation by any state or federal environmental agency, and no investigation or action is currently anticipated. At this time, it is not known to what degree these sites may contain environmental contamination. Dominion is not able to estimate the cost, if any, that may be required for the possible remediation of these sites. The EPA amended its oil pollution prevention regulations in July 2002. The total projected cost of compliance with the new regulations is estimated to range from $21 to $40 million, representing primarily capital expenditures. The EPA is also considering issuing new regulations that govern existing utilities that employ a cooling water intake structure, and whose flow levels exceed a minimum threshold. As currently written, EPAs proposed rule presents several control options under consideration for the final rule. Dominion is evaluating facility information from certain of its power stations. Given the uncertainties of future action by EPA on this issue, the Dominion cannot predict the future impact on its operations at this time. Dominion has applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits material to the operation of its electric generating stations. Many of these permits are subject to re issuance and continuing review. As part of its reissuance of a pollution discharge permit for the Millstone Power Station, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection will evaluate the ecological impacts of the cooling water intake system. Until the permit is reissued, it is not possible to predict the financial impact, if any, that may result. Nuclear Regulatory Commission All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominions nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion Energy segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires. Dominion filed applications for 20 year life extension for the North Anna and Surry units in May 2001. The NRC has completed its review of the applications and Dominion expects to receive a renewed license for these units in 2003. Dominion also expects to file a similar request for the Millstone units in 2004. For more information on this matter, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominions nuclear generating units. The NRC also requires Dominion to decontaminate nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and Dominion is required by the NRC to prepare for it financially. For information on compliance with the NRC financial assurance requirements, see Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 Table of Contents Disposal of spent nuclear fuel is a significant issue associated with the operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA) of 1982 required a permanent, federal repository for high level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel to be made available by January 31, 1998. In February 2002, the Secretary of Energy recommended that Yucca Mountain located in the state of Nevada be developed as the permanent repository. Final congressional approval was received in July 2002. The DOE is currently in the process of seeking approval of a NRC license to begin construction of the repository. Dominion and other utilities have petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit to review a matter involving DOE and PECO Energy Company (PECO). The petitioners challenged the DOEs action that allowed PECO to take credits against payments PECO would have been making into the Nuclear Waste Fund (NWF). The credits are part of the DOEs settlement of PECOs claim regarding the DOEs failure to provide a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel as required by the NWPA. The petition stated that the credits violated the NWPA by depleting the NWF and releasing PECO from a portion of its NWF obligation. The petition also sought an injunction of the DOEs settlement agreement with PECO and an injunction against DOE entering into similar agreements. In September 2002, the court issued its decision on the matter declaring the fee adjustment aspect of the settlement between PECO and DOE null and void. The decision does not prevent DOE from settling claims related to its breach of its contractual obligation to begin disposing of spent nuclear fuel, but precludes DOE from using the NWF to compensate utilities for damages incurred by utilities owing to DOEs breach of its NWF obligation to dispose of spent nuclear fuel. Interconnections Dominion maintains major interconnections with Progress Energy, American Electric Power Company, Inc., PJM West and PJM. Through this major transmission network, Dominion has arrangements with these entities for coordinated planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy. See also RTO in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A. Sources of Energy Sources of Energy Electricity Dominion Energy provides electricity for use on a wholesale and a retail level. Dominion Energy can supply electricity demand either from its generation facilities in Connecticut, Indiana, Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia or through purchased power contracts when needed. The following table lists Dominions generating units and capability. 9 Table of Contents Dominions Power Generation Plant Location Primary Fuel Type Net Summer Capability (Mw) Utility Generation North Anna Mineral, VA Nuclear 1,628 (a) Surry Surry, VA Nuclear 1,625 Mt. Storm Mt. Storm, WV Coal 1,569 Chesterfield Chester, VA Coal 1,234 Chesapeake Chesapeake, VA Coal 595 Clover Clover, VA Coal 441 (b) Yorktown Yorktown, VA Coal 326 Possum Point Dumfries, VA Coal 322 Bremo Bremo Bluff, VA Coal 227 North Branch Bayard, WV Coal 74 Altavista Altavista, VA Coal 63 Southampton Southampton, VA Coal 63 Yorktown Yorktown, VA Oil 818 Possum Point Dumfries, VA Oil 786 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Oil 183 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Oil 144 Chesapeake (CT) Chesapeake, VA Oil 144 Possum Point (CT) Dumfries, VA Oil 78 Northern Neck (CT) Lively, VA Oil 64 Low Moor (CT) Covington, VA Oil 60 Kitty Hawk (CT) Kitty Hawk, NC Oil 44 Remington (CT) Remington, VA Gas 580 Chesterfield (CC) Chester, VA Gas 397 Ladysmith (CT) Ladysmith, VA Gas 290 Bellmeade (CC) Richmond, VA Gas 230 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Gas 146 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Gas 144 Bath County Warm Springs, VA Hydro 1,440 (c) Gaston Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 225 Roanoke Rapids Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 99 Other Various Various 15 14,054 Non utility Generation Millstone Waterford, CT Nuclear 1,954 (d) Kincaid Kincaid, IL Coal 1,158 State Line Hammond, IN Coal 515 Morgantown Morgantown, WV Coal 33 (f) Elwood (CT) Elwood, IL Gas 682 (e) Armstrong (CT) Shelocta, PA Gas 600 (g) Troy (CT) Luckey, OH Gas 600 (g) Pleasants (CT) St. Marys, WV Gas 300 (g) Others Various Various 31 5,873 Purchased Capacity 3,758 Net Purchases 145 Total Capacity 23,830 Note: (CT) denotes combustion turbine and (CC) denotes combined cycle (a) Excludes 11.6 percent undivided interest owned by Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC). (b) Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by ODEC. (c) Excludes 40 percent undivided interest owned by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc. (d) Excludes 6.53 percent undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and Central Vermont Public Service Company. (e) Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by Peoples Energy. (f) Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by Cogen Technologies Morgantown, Ltd. and Hickory Power Corporation. (g) Includes generating units which Dominion operates under leasing arrangements. 10 Table of Contents Power Purchase Contracts Dominion Energy purchases electricity under contracts with other suppliers to meet a portion of its system capacity requirements. As of December 31, 2002, Dominion has 42 power purchase contracts with a combined dependable summer capacity of 3,758 Mw. For information on the financial obligations under these agreements, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fuel for Electric Generation Dominion uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation. These include a mix of both nuclear fuel and fossil fuel as described further below. Nuclear Fuel Supply Dominion utilizes both long term contracts and short term purchases to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimum cost and inventory levels. Fossil Fuel Supply Dominion utilizes coal, oil and natural gas in its fossil fuel operations. Dominion Energys coal supply is obtained through long term contracts and spot purchases. Oil and oil fired generation are used primarily to support heavier system generation loads during very cold or very hot weather periods. System requirements are purchased mainly under short term spot agreements. Dominion uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for Dominions jurisdictional and non jurisdictional generation facilities. Dominions gas supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Southwest and Midwest regions; purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; and withdrawals from Dominions and third party underground storage fields. Firm natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) exist that allow delivery of gas to our facilities. Dominions capacity portfolio allows flexible natural gas deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs. Gas Supply Dominion is engaged in the sale and storage of natural gas through its operating subsidiaries. Sources of gas supplies for sale to customers are the same as those described in Fossil Fuel Supply above. Dominion continues to purchase volumes from the array of accessible producing basins using its firm capacity resources. These purchased supplies include Appalachian resources in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia and production from the Gulf Coast, Mid Continent and offshore areas. Upon FERCs restructuring of the interstate pipeline business in 1992 and 1993, pipelines no longer sell the delivered natural gas commodity; rather, customers provide their own gas supply for wholesale storage and or delivery by the pipelines. Much of the supply is purchased by local distributors, energy marketing companies or end users under seasonal or spot purchase agreements. Gas Storage Transmission Dominions underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with sales demand and are essential to servicing the Mid Atlantic and Northeasts large volume of space heating business. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transport capacity. Dominion operates 26 underground gas storage fields located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York. Dominion owns 20 of these storage fields and has joint ownership with other companies in six of the fields. The total designed capacity of the storage fields is approximately 960 billion cubic feet (bcf). Dominions share of the total capacity is about 717 bcf. About one half of the total capacity is base gas which remains in the reservoirs at all times to provide the primary pressure which enables the balance of the gas to be withdrawn as needed. Gas Production Dominion Exploration & Production owns 6.1 trillion cubic feet of proved equivalent natural gas reserves and produced almost 1.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and 27 thousand barrels of oil per day in 2002. Dominion Exploration & Production utilizes production handling and firm transportation contracts to support delivery of its gas and oil in certain market areas. Additional information about these commitments can also be found in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 11 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Dominion leases its principal executive office in Richmond, Virginia as well as corporate offices in other cities in which its subsidiaries operate. It also owns another corporate office in Richmond. Dominions assets consist primarily of its investments in its subsidiaries, the principal properties of which are described below. Substantially all of Dominions electric subsidiarys property is subject to the lien of the mortgage securing its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds and certain of its nonutility generation facilities are subject to liens. Dominion Energy utilizes the electric generation facilities listed under the heading Sources of Energy Dominions Power Generation in Item 1. Business. Dominions storage operation consists of 26 storage fields, approximately 373,000 acres of operated leaseholds and 2,000 storage wells. Dominion Energy has approximately 7,900 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage piplines. The map below illustrates Dominions gas transmission pipelines, storage facilities and electric transmission lines. Dominion Energy also has more than 100 compressor stations with approximately 577,000 installed compressor horsepower located in Ohio, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York. Some of the stations are used interchangeably for several functions. Dominion Delivery has approximately 6,000 miles of electric transmission lines. Portions of Dominion Deliverys transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, surplus capacity in the line, if any exists. Dominion Deliverys right of way grants from the apparent owners of real estate have been obtained for most electric lines, but underlying titles have not been examined except for transmission lines of 69 Kv or more. Where rights of way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked. Dominion Deliverys investment in its gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The gas distribution network includes approximately 27,000 miles of pipe, exclusive of service pipe. 12 Table of Contents Dominion Exploration & Production owns 6.1 trillion cubic feet of proved equivalent natural gas reserves and produces approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet of equivalent natural gas per day from its leasehold acreage and facility investments. Dominion, either alone or with partners, holds interests in natural gas and oil lease acreage, wellbores, well facilities, production platforms and gathering systems. Dominion also owns or holds rights to seismic data and other tools used in exploration and development drilling activities. Dominions share of developed leasehold totals 3.1 million acres, with another 2.4 million acres held for future exploration and development drilling opportunities. Information detailing Dominions gas and oil operations presented on the following pages includes the activities of the Dominion Exploration & Production segment and the production activity of Dominion Transmission, Inc., which is included in the Dominion Energy segment: Company Owned Proved Gas and Oil Reserves Estimated net quantities of proved gas and oil reserves at December 31 of each of the last three years were as follows: 2002 2001 2000 Proved Developed Total Proved Proved Developed Total Proved Proved Developed Total Proved Proved gas reserves (bcf) United States 3,549 4,458 3,026 3,517 1,593 1,858 Canada 486 640 440 573 361 479 Total proved gas reserves 4,035 5,098 3,466 4,090 1,954 2,337 Proved oil reserves (000 bbls) United States 47,759 138,798 46,473 115,988 21,709 51,072 Canada 18,064 30,432 17,304 24,579 14,527 24,270 Total proved oil reserves 65,823 169,230 63,777 140,567 36,236 75,342 Total proved gas and oil reserves (bcfe) 4,430 6,113 3,850 4,933 2,172 2,789 13 Table of Contents Certain subsidiaries of Dominion file Form EIA 23 with the DOE, which reports gross proved reserves, including the working interests share of other owners, for properties operated by such Dominion subsidiaries. The proved reserves reported in the table above represent Dominions share of proved reserves for all properties, based on Dominions ownership interest in each property. For properties operated by Dominion, the difference between the proved reserves reported on Form EIA 23 and the Company owned proved reserves, reported in the table above, does not exceed five percent. Estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002 are based upon studies for each Dominion property prepared by Dominions staff engineers and reviewed by either Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. or Ryder Scott Company, L.P. Calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines. Quantities of Gas and Oil Produced Quantities of gas and oil produced* during each of the last three years ending December 31 follow: 2002 2001 2000 Gas production (bcf) United States 346 238 222 Canada 53 57 47 Total gas production 399 295 269 Oil production (000 bbls) United States 8,653 6,134 6,436 Canada 1,072 1,529 1,258 Total oil production 9,725 7,663 7,694 Total gas and oil production (bcfe) 458 341 315 * Gas and oil production quantities include the production from the Dominion Exploration & Production segment and the production activity of DominionTransmission, Inc., which is included in the Dominion Energy segment. The average sales price per thousand cubic feet (mcf) of gas with hedging results (including transfers to other Dominion operations at market prices) realized during the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $3.41, $3.83 and $3.12, respectively. The respective average prices without hedging results per mcf of gas produced were $3.04, $3.92 and $3.72. The respective average sales prices realized for oil with hedging results were $23.29, $23.42 and $26.63 per barrel and the respective average price without hedging results were $24.45, $23.53 and $28.35 per barrel. The average production (lifting) cost per mcf equivalent of gas and oil produced (as calculated per SEC guidelines) during the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $0.60, $0.65 and $0.49 respectively. 14 Table of Contents Net Wells Drilled in the Calendar Year The number of net wells completed during each of the last three years ending December 31 follows: 2002 2001 2000 Exploratory: United States Productive 12 17 5 Dry 12 15 9 Total United States 24 32 14 Canada Productive 1 2 Dry 1 1 1 Total Canada 2 3 1 Total exploratory 26 35 15 Development: United States Productive 774 372 253 Dry 38 3 2 Total United States 812 375 255 Canada Productive 61 93 71 Dry 11 15 9 Total Canada 72 108 80 Total development 884 483 335 Total wells drilled 910 518 350 As of December 31, 2002, 68 gross (52 net) wells were in process of drilling, including wells temporarily suspended. Acreage Gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2002 was: Developed Acreage Undeveloped Acreage Gross Net Gross Net United States 3,714,258 2,373,000 2,479,977 1,417,884 Canada 1,399,019 770,788 1,228,191 963,525 Total 5,113,277 3,143,788 3,708,168 2,381,409 Productive Wells The number of productive gas and oil wells in which Dominions subsidiaries had an interest at December 31, 2002, follow: Gross Net Gas wells United States 23,896 15,359 Canada 876 579 Total gas wells 24,772 15,938 Oil wells United States 305 222 Canada 352 172 Total oil wells 657 394 The number of productive wells includes 197 gross (73 net) multiple completion gas wells and 10 gross (4 net) multiple completion oil wells. 15 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, Dominion and its subsidiaries are alleged to be in violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating to the environment, compliance plans or permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the construction or operation of facilities. From time to time, there may be administrative proceedings on these matters pending. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Dominion and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on Dominions financial position, liquidity or results of operations. See Regulation in Item 1. Business, Rate Matters in Future Issues and Outlook in MD&A and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on rate matters and various regulatory proceedings to which Dominion is a party. Before being acquired by Dominion, Louis Dreyfus and two predecessor companies were named as defendants in several lawsuits originally filed in 1995 that were subsequently consolidated. The consolidated lawsuit is now pending in the Texas 93rd Judicial District Court in Hildago County, Texas. The lawsuit alleges that gas wells and related pipeline facilities operated by Louis Dreyfus, and other facilities operated by other defendants, caused an underground hydrocarbon plume in McAllen, Texas. The plaintiffs claim that they have suffered damages, including property damage and lost profits, as a result of the plume and seek compensation for these items. In July 1997, Jack Grynberg, an oil and gas entrepreneur, brought suit against CNG and several of its subsidiaries. The suit seeks damages for alleged fraudulent mismeasurement of gas volumes and underreporting of gas royalties from gas production taken from federal leases. In 2002, the valuation portion of the claim was dismissed. The plaintiff has filed an appeal. In April 1998, Harrold E. (Gene) Wright, an oil and gas entrepreneur, brought suit against CNG Producing Company, a subsidiary of CNG, alleging various fraudulent valuation practices in the payment of royalties on federal leases. Shortly after filing, this case was consolidated under the Federal Multidistrict Litigation rules with the Grynberg case noted above. A substantial portion of the claim against CNG Producing Company was resolved by settlement in late 2002; however, the suit remains consolidated with the Grynberg case. In 1999, a class action was filed by Quinque Operating Co. and other parties against approximately 300 defendants, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries, in Stevens County, Kansas. The complaint seeks damages for alleged fraud, misrepresentation, conversion and assorted other claims, in the measurement and payment of gas royalties from privately held gas leases. The plaintiffs will seek class certification and expedited discovery in Kansas. The defendants have filed motions to dismiss the case. A motion in opposition to class certification was argued in January 2003. During 2000, Virginia Power received a Notice of Violation from the EPA, alleging that Virginia Power failed to obtain New Source Review permits under the Clean Air Act prior to undertaking specified construction projects at the Mt. Storm Power Station in West Virginia. The Attorney General of New York filed a suit against Virginia Power alleging similar violations of the Clean Air Act at the Mt. Storm Power Station. Virginia Power also received notices from the Attorneys General of Connecticut and New Jersey of their intentions to file suit for similar violations. In December 2002, the Attorney General of Connecticut filed a motion to intervene as a plaintiff in the action filed by the New York State Attorney General. This action has been stayed. Management believes that Virginia Power has obtained the necessary permits for its generating facilities. Virginia Power has reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and the state of New York to resolve this situation. The agreement in principle includes payment of a $5 million civil penalty, a commitment of $14 million for environmental projects in Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, and a 12 year, $1.2 billion capital investment program for environmental improvements at Virginia Powers coal fired generating stations in Virginia and West Virginia. Virginia Power had already committed to a substantial portion of the $1.2 billion expenditures for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions controls. The negotiations over the terms of a binding settlement have expanded beyond the basic agreement in principle and are ongoing. As of December 31, 2002, Virginia Power has recorded, on a discounted basis, $18 million for the civil penalty and environmental projects. In June 2002, Wiley Fisher, Jr. and John Fisher filed a purported class action lawsuit against Virginia Power and Dominion Telecom, Inc. (Dominion Telecom) in the U.S. District Court in Richmond, Virginia. The plaintiffs claim that Virginia Power and Dominion Telecom strung fiber optic cable across their land, along a Virginia Power electric transmission corridor without paying compensation. The plaintiffs are seeking damages for trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages from the defendants. 16 Table of Contents The named plaintiffs purport to represent a class . . . consisting of all owners of land in North Carolina and Virginia, other than public streets or highways, that underlies Virginia Powers electric transmission lines and on or in which fiber optic cable has been installed. The named plaintiffs have asked that the court allow the lawsuit to proceed as a class action. Discovery has begun and the court has granted a motion to add additional plaintiffs, Harmon T. Tomlinson, Jr. and Linda D. Tomlinson. The outcome of the proceeding, including an estimate as to any potential loss, cannot be predicted at this time. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 17 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Name and Age Business Experience Past Five Years Thos. E. Capps (67) Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from August 2000 to date; Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from January 2000 to August 2000; Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from September 1995 to January 2000. Thomas F. Farrell, II (48) Executive Vice President of Dominion from March 1999 to date; President and Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 2002 to date; Executive Vice President of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date; Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from May 1999 to December 2002; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Virginia Electric and Power Company from July 1998 to April 1999; Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Virginia Electric and Power Company from April 1998 to June 1998; Executive Vice President of Virginia Electric and Power Company from September 1997 to April 1998; Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs of Dominion from September 1997 to March 1999. Jay L. Johnson (56) Executive Vice President of Dominion and President and Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 2002 to date; Senior Vice President, Business Excellence, Dominion Energy, Inc. from September 2000 to December 2002; Chief of Naval Operations, U.S. Navy, and member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1996 until July 2000. Duane C. Radtke (54) Executive Vice President of Dominion and Consolidated Natural Gas Company from April 2001 to date; President of Devon Energy International from August 2000 to April 2001; Executive Vice President Production of Santa Fe Snyder Corp. from May 1999 to August 2000; Senior Vice President Production of Santa Fe Energy Resources from April 1998 to May 1999; President of Santa Fe Energy Resources (S.E. Asia) from August 1993 to April 1998. Thomas N. Chewning (57) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date; Executive Vice President of Dominion prior to April 1999. Paul D. Koonce (43) Chief Executive Officer Transmission of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2003 to date; Senior Vice President Portfolio Management of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to December 2002; Senior Vice President Commercial Operations of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 1999 to January 2000; Vice President of Regulated Commercial Operations of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 1999 to June 1999; Senior Vice President Sonat Energy Services from August 1997 to January 1999. Mark F. McGettrick (45) President and Chief Executive Officer Generation of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2003 to date; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Dominion from January 2002 to December 2002; Senior Vice President Customer Service and Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to December 2001; Vice President Customer Service and Marketing of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 1997 to January 2000. 18 Table of Contents Name and Age Business Experience Past Five Years Mary C. Doswell (44) Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from January 2003 to date; Vice President Billing and Credit of Virginia Electric and Power Company from October 2001 to December 2002; Vice President Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to October 2001; General Manager Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from February 1999 to January 2000; Project Manager of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 1997 to February 1999. Eva S. Hardy (58) Senior Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Senior Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of Virginia Electric and Power Company from September 1997 to April 2000. G. Scott Hetzer (46) Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Virginia Electric and Power Company and Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date; Vice President and Treasurer of Dominion from October 1997 to May 1999. James L. Sanderlin (61) Senior Vice President Law of Dominion from September 1999 to date; Senior Vice President Law of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date. Partner in the law firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe LLP prior to September 1999. Steven A. Rogers (41) Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Dominion and Consolidated Natural Gas Company and Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from June 2000 to date; Controller of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to May 2000. Controller of Dominion Energy, Inc. from September 1998 to June 2000; Vice President and Controller of Optacor Financial Services Company from February 1997 to September 1998. Any service listed for Virginia Electric and Power Company, Consolidated Natural Gas Company, Dominion Energy, Inc. and Optacor Financial Services Company reflects service at a subsidiary of Dominion. 19 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Dominions common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31, 2002, there were approximately 188,000 registered shareholders, including approximately 88,000 certificate holders. The quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends is incorporated by reference from Note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2002, Dominion issued 483 shares of common stock to two former employees as a deferred payment under a 1985 performance achievement plan. These shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The issuance of this stock did not involve a public offering, and is therefore exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Item 6. Selected Financial Data (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Operating revenue $ 10,218 $ 10,558 $ 9,246 $ 5,520 $ 6,081 Income before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,362 544 415 552 548 Extraordinary item (net of income taxes of $197) (255 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes of $11) 21 Net income 1,362 544 436 297 548 Earnings per common share basic 4.85 2.17 1.85 1.55 2.81 Earnings per common share diluted 4.82 2.15 1.85 1.48 2.81 Total assets 37,909 34,369 29,297 17,782 17,549 Long term debt, subsidiary preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption and preferred securities of subsidiary trusts 13,457 13,251 10,486 7,321 6,817 Dividends paid per share $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 2.58 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses the results of operations and general financial condition of Dominion. MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. The term Dominion is used throughout MD&A and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources, Inc., one of Dominion Resources, Inc.s consolidated subsidiaries, or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results This report contains statements concerning Dominions expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In most cases, the reader can identify these forward looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, forecast, expect, believe, should, could, plan, may or other similar words. Dominion makes forward looking statements with full knowledge that risks and uncertainties exist that may cause actual results to be materially different from predicted results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward looking statements themselves. In addition, other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward looking statement. These factors include weather conditions; fluctuations in energy related commodities prices and the effect these could have on Dominions earnings, liquidity position and the underlying value of its assets; trading counterparty credit risk; capital market conditions, including price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in trusts and benefit plans; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in rating agency requirements or ratings; changes in accounting standards; the risks of operating businesses in regulated industries that are becoming deregulated; the transfer of control over electric transmission facilities to a regional transmission organization; completing the divestiture of Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI) and CNG International Corporation; collective bargaining agreements and labor negotiations; and political and economic conditions (including inflation rates). Some more specific risks are discussed below. Dominion bases its forward looking statements on managements beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. Dominion 20 Table of Contents cautions the reader not to place undue reliance on its forward looking statements because the assumptions, beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may, and often do, materially differ from actual results. Dominion undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect developments occurring after the statement is made. Dominions operations are weather sensitive. Dominions results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms and droughts, can be destructive, causing outages, production delays and property damage that requires Dominion to incur additional expenses. Dominion is subject to complex government regulation that could adversely affect its operations. Dominions operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. Dominion must also comply with environmental legislation and other regulations. Management believes the necessary approvals have been obtained for Dominions existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, may require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed Dominions estimates. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment and monitoring obligations. In addition, Dominion may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs and compliance, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Capped electric rates in Virginia may be insufficient to allow full recovery of stranded and other costs. Under the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act, Dominions electric base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) remain unchanged until July 2007 unless modified or terminated consistent with that Act. The capped rates and wires charges that, where applicable, are being assessed to customers opting for alternative suppliers allow Dominion to recover certain generation related costs; however, Dominion remains exposed to numerous risks of cost recovery shortfalls. These include exposure to potentially stranded costs, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, inflation and increased capital costs. See Future Issues and Outlook Regulated Electric Operations and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The electric generation business is subject to competition. Effective January 1, 2002, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations in Virginia is open to competition and is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation. As a result, there is increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of purchased electricity. Because Dominions electric utility generation business has not previously operated in a competitive environment, the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric market in Virginia is unknown. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the extent to which Dominion will be able to operate profitably within this new environment. In addition, the success of Dominions merchant power plants depends upon its ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Depressed spot and forward wholesale power prices and excess capacity could result in lower than expected revenues in Dominions merchant power business. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities. Dominion operates nuclear facilities that are subject to inherent risks. These include the threat of terrorist attack and ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the disposal of which is subject to complex federal and state regulatory constraints. These risks also include the cost of and Dominions ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, costs of plant maintenance and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. Dominion maintains decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses. Dominion uses derivative instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. In the future, Dominion could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the 21 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued valuation of these financial instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion is exposed to market risks beyond its control in its energy clearinghouse operations. Dominions energy clearinghouse and risk management operations are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. Many industry participants have experienced severe business downturns during the past year resulting in some being forced to exit or curtail their participation in the energy trading markets. This has led to a reduction in the number of trading partners, lower industry trading revenues and lower than expected revenues in Dominions energy clearinghouse operations. Declining credit worthiness of some of Dominions trading counterparties may limit the level of its trading activities with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may not perform under a contract. The success of Dominions telecommunications business strategy is dependent upon market conditions. The current strategy of Dominions joint venture in the telecommunications business is based upon its ability to deliver lit capacity, dark fiber and colocation services to its customers. The market for these services, like the telecommunications industry in general, is rapidly changing, and Dominion cannot be certain that anticipated growth in demand for these services will occur. If the market for these services continues to fail to grow as quickly as anticipated or becomes saturated with competitors, including competitors using alternative technologies such as wireless, Dominions equity and debt investments in the telecommunications business, as well as the results from such investments, may continue to be adversely affected. Additionally, the current market values of assets in the telecommunications industry have been subject to depressed market conditions. If these conditions continue, Dominion may have to contribute cash to satisfy operating requirements and the underlying value of Dominions telecommunications investments could be affected adversely which, under certain circumstances, could require a write down of the value of such investments. Dominions exploration and production business is dependent on factors including commodity prices that cannot be predicted or controlled. Dominions exploration and production business is subject to numerous risks beyond its control. These factors include fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, Dominions ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas, and operational risks that are inherent in the exploration and production business and could result in disruption of production. In addition, in connection with the use of financial derivatives to hedge future sales of gas and oil production, Dominions liquidity may sometimes be affected by margin requirements. Under these requirements, Dominion must deposit funds with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. Some of these factors could have compounding effects that could also affect Dominions financial results. Also, because Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), short term market declines in the prices of natural gas and oil could adversely affect its financial results. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. The principal limitation is that these capitalized amounts may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge adjusted period end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test). If net capitalized costs exceed the ceiling test, in a given country, at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of Dominions business plan. Dominion relies on access to both short term money markets and longer term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from its operations. Management believes that Dominion and its subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of Dominions control may increase its cost of borrowing or restrict its ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to Dominions credit ratings. Restrictions on Dominions ability to access financial markets may affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect Dominions growth and business strategy. As of March 1, 2003, Dominions senior unsecured debt is rated BBB+, stable outlook, by Standard & Poors Rating Group, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. (Standard & Poors) and Baa1, negative outlook, by Moodys Investor Service (Moodys). Both agencies have recently implemented more stringent applications of the financial requirements for various ratings levels. In order to maintain its current credit 22 Table of Contents ratings in light of these or future new requirements, Dominion may find it necessary to take steps or change its business plans in ways that may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominions credit ratings by either Standard & Poors or Moodys could increase its borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect Dominions financial results. Dominion cannot predict the impact of future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies, the energy industry or its operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or the SEC that could change the way Dominion records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect Dominions reported earnings or increase its liabilities. Operating Segments In general, managements discussion of Dominions results of operations focuses on the contributions of its operating segments. However, the discussion of Dominions financial condition under Liquidity and Capital Resources is based on legal entities as Dominion transacts business in the financial markets on that basis. Dominions three primary operating segments are: Dominion Energy manages Dominions generation portfolio, consisting primarily of generating units and power purchase agreements. It also manages Dominions energy trading and marketing, hedging and arbitrage activities; and gas pipeline and certain gas production and storage operations. Dominion Energys operating results largely reflect: the impact of weather on demand for electricity; customer growth as influenced by overall economic conditions and acquisitions; and changes in prices of commodities, primarily electricity and natural gas, that the segment actively markets and trades, uses for hedging purposes, and consumes in generation activities. Effective January 1, 2003, Dominions electric transmission operations became a part of Dominion Energy. Dominion Delivery manages Dominions electric and gas distribution systems, as well as customer service and electric transmission functions. Dominion Deliverys operating results reflect the impact of weather on demand for electricity and natural gas and customer growth as influenced by overall economic conditions. Dominion Deliverys electric and gas businesses are subject to cost of service rate regulation; changes in prices of commodities consumed or delivered are generally recoverable in rates charged to customers. However, certain rates may be subject to price caps, limiting recovery of higher costs in certain circumstances. Dominion Delivery also includes Dominions interest in Dominion Fiber Ventures LLC (DFV), a telecommunications joint venture. See Note 30 for a discussion of Dominions consolidation of DFV beginning in February 2003. Effective January 1, 2003, Dominions electric transmission operations became a part of the Dominion Energy operating segment. Dominion Exploration & Production manages Dominions onshore and offshore gas and oil exploration, development and production operations. They are located in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deep water areas of the Gulf of Mexico, and Western Canada. Dominion Exploration & Productions operating results reflect successful discovery of and production from natural gas and oil reserves, as well as changes in prices of natural gas and oil. Dominion Exploration & Productions commodity risk is managed by the Dominion Energy Clearinghouse (the Clearinghouse) by using derivative instruments, such as forwards, swaps, and options. In addition, Dominion also presents its corporate functions, financial services and other operations as an operating segment. For more information on Dominions segments, see Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Dominion has identified the following accounting policies that, as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Accounting for risk management and energy trading contracts at fair value Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. Accounting requirements for derivatives and hedging activities are complex; interpretation of these requirements by standard setting bodies is ongoing. All derivatives, other than specific exceptions, are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, beginning in 2001. Energy trading contracts are also reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Changes in fair value, except those related to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, are generally included in the determination of Dominions net income at each financial reporting date until the contracts are ultimately settled. The measurement of fair value is based on actively quoted market prices, if available. In their absence, Dominion seeks indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is 23 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued not available, measurement involves judgment and estimates. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies deemed appropriate by Dominion management. For individual contracts, the use of different assumptions could have a material effect on the contracts estimated fair value. In addition, for hedges of forecasted transactions, Dominion must estimate the expected future cash flows of the forecasted transactions, as well as evaluate the probability of occurrence and timing of such transactions. Changes in conditions or the occurrence of unforeseen events could affect the timing of recognition of changes in fair value of certain hedging derivatives. See Selected Information Energy Trading Activities and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in MD&A and Notes 2, 4 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for gas and oil operations Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the SEC. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depreciated using a unit of production method. The depreciable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved gas and oil reserves, as well as dismantlement and abandonment costs, net of projected salvage values. The calculations under this accounting method are dependent on engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities and estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves. Proved reserves, and the cash flows related to these reserves, are estimated based on a combination of historical data and estimates of future activity. Actual reserve quantities and development expenditures may differ from the forecasted amounts. In addition, Dominion has significant investments in unproved properties, which are initially excluded from the depreciable base. Until the properties are evaluated, a ratable portion of the capitalized costs is periodically reclassified to the depreciable base, determined on a property by property basis, over terms of underlying leases. Once a property has been evaluated, any remaining capitalized costs are then transferred to the depreciable base. Capitalized costs in the depreciable base are subject to a ceiling test prescribed by the SEC. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved gas and oil reserves. Dominion performs the test quarterly, on a country by country basis, and would recognize asset impairments to the extent that total capitalized costs exceed the ceiling. Any impairment of excess gas and oil property costs over the ceiling is charged to operations. Given the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, it is possible that Dominions estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves could change in the near term. If natural gas or oil prices decline, even if for only a short period, or if Dominion revises its estimated proved reserves downward, recognition of natural gas and oil property impairments could occur in the future. See Notes 2 and 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Use of estimates in impairment testing Dominion is required to test at least annually its goodwill for potential impairment. As part of that test, Dominion is required to determine the fair value of its reporting units. Dominion produces this estimate by using discounted cash flow analyses and other valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings for peer group companies, as well as analyses of recent business combinations involving peer group companies. These calculations are dependent on many subjective factors, including the selection of appropriate discount and growth rates, the selection of peer group companies and recent transactions and managements estimate of future cash flows. The cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on the best information available at the time the estimates are made. However, estimates of future cash flows are highly uncertain by nature and may vary significantly from actual results. Dominion performed the transitional impairment test upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, as of January 1, 2002 and its annual test later in the year. The fair value of each of Dominions reporting units exceeded the related carrying amounts, resulting in no impairment. The underlying assumptions and estimates involved in preparing these fair value calculations could change significantly from period to period. If Dominions estimates of the fair value of its reporting units are substantially reduced, impairment may be indicated and Dominion would be required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test. That step measures the amount of impairment, if any, and requires the further use of fair value estimates. A goodwill impairment charge would result in a charge to earnings, with a corresponding reduction of the carrying amount of goodwill on the balance sheet. Dominion had $4.3 billion and $4.2 billion of goodwill at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Notes 2 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of goodwill impairment tests. Impairment testing for long lived assets and intangible assets with definite lives is required when circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. In performing the impairment test, Dominion would estimate the future cash flows associated with individual assets or groups of assets. Impairment results when the undiscounted estimated future cash flows are less than the related assets carrying amount. If 24 Table of Contents impaired, the asset must be written down to its fair value, which is generally calculated using the present value of its expected future net cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on the best information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are by nature highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. Accounting for retained interests from securitizations Securitizations involve selling loans to qualifying unconsolidated trusts in exchange for cash and retained interests. Retained interests may include unsecured debt of the trust or retained interests in the transferred loans. Dominion holds retained interests from mortgage and commercial loans securitized in prior years and classifies them as available for sale investments, carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Quarterly, Dominion evaluates the key assumptions relating to valuing the retained interests. Those key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, credit losses, forward yield curves and discount rates. Using a published forward yield curve, cash flows, net of adjustments for expected credit losses and loan prepayments, are discounted to determine the estimated fair value of the retained interests. Loan prepayments speeds and credit loss assumptions are based on actual historical results and future estimates. The discount rate is risk adjusted and is periodically compared to industry averages and recent or similar transactions for reasonableness. Changes in interest rates will result in a change in the forward yield curve and can result in a change in the assumed amount of loan prepayments. Changes in general economic conditions may impact actual credit losses, thus impacting the credit loss assumption used in Dominions quarterly evaluation. Income from the residual interests is reported as other revenue. As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during 2002, 2001 and 2000, Dominion made changes to these key assumptions, resulting in impairment charges for those years. See also Notes 2 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of securitizations and retained interests and a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions. Accounting for regulated operations Methods of allocating costs to accounting periods for operations subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation may differ from accounting methods generally applied by nonregulated companies. When the timing of cost recovery prescribed by regulatory authorities differs from the timing of expense recognition used for accounting purposes, Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements may recognize a regulatory asset for expenditures that otherwise would be expensed. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenue associated with certain costs that will be recovered from customers through rates. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future reductions in revenue associated with expected customer credits through rates. Management makes assumptions regarding the probability of regulatory asset recovery through future rates approved by applicable regulatory authorities. The expectations of future recovery are generally based upon historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of regulatory assets is determined to be less than probable, they would be expensed in the period such assessment is made. See Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Dominions discussion of its results of operations includes a tabular summary of contributions by its operating segments to net income and diluted earnings per share, an overview of 2002 and 2001 results of operations for consolidated Dominion, as well as a more detailed discussion of operating segment results of operations. 2002 2001 2000 (millions, except per share amounts) Net Income EPS Net Income EPS Net Income EPS Dominion Energy $ 770 $ 2.72 $ 723 $ 2.86 $ 489 $ 2.07 Dominion Delivery 455 1.61 366 1.45 339 1.43 Dominion E&P 380 1.34 320 1.27 255 1.08 Net income contribution operating segments 1,605 5.67 1,409 5.58 1,083 4.58 Corporate and Other (243 ) (0.85 ) (865 ) (3.43 ) (647 ) (2.73 ) Total Consolidated Dominion $ 1,362 $ 4.82 $ 544 $ 2.15 $ 436 $ 1.85 Consolidated operating revenue $ 10,218 $ 10,558 $ 9,246 Consolidated operating expense $ 7,333 $ 8,773 $ 7,731 Overview of Consolidated Operating Results 2002 Dominion earned $4.82 per diluted share on net income of $1.36 billion in 2002, an increase of $818 million and $2.67 per diluted share over 2001. The increase includes higher net income contributions by all operating segments, partially offset by approximately $0.57 of share dilution, reflecting a substantial increase in the number of average common shares outstanding during 2002. In addition, Dominion recognized fewer specific charges in 2002, as described in Corporate and Other segment results below. Regulated electric sales and non regulated retail energy sales increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and growth in customer base. Nonregulated electric sales by Dominions merchant generation fleet declined primarily due to lower electricity prices, partially offset by sales from recently acquired and constructed assets. Sales of gas and oil production increased as a result of higher production levels, reflecting Dominions ongoing drilling programs, the operations of Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. (Louis Dreyfus), partially offset by natural production declines and by lower average realized prices for gas and oil, including the 25 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued effects of hedging. Overall, net revenue from Dominions energy trading operations decreased for 2002. Gas trading activities contributed less for 2002, reflecting the effects of net unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower trading margins, partially offset by higher overall trading volumes. Electric trading activities increased for 2002, reflecting favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher trading margins. Energy trading operations are discussed in more detail as part of the Dominion Energy segment results of operations. In addition to the contributions by its operating segments, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization resulted in a $95 million increase in net income. During 2002, Dominion did not recognize any significant specific charges, as compared to 2001 when those charges totaled $797 million, as described in the Corporate and Other segment results. Interest and related charges decreased $52 million, reflecting lower overall interest rates on outstanding debt, partially offset by interest on new issues of debt and distributions on trust preferred securities issued in late 2001 and during 2002. Dominions effective income tax rate decreased, reflecting the net $33 million effect of including certain subsidiaries in Dominions consolidated state income tax returns. In addition, the effective tax rate decreased for foreign earnings, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization for book purposes and other factors. Overview of Consolidated Operating Results 2001 Dominion earned $2.15 per diluted share on net income of $544 million in 2001, an increase of $108 million and $0.30 per diluted share over 2000. The increase includes higher net income contributions by all operating segments, partially offset by a higher number of specific charges in 2001 as compared to 2000, as discussed in Corporate and Other segment results below. The increase in results for Dominions operating segments for 2001 reflect the operations of businesses acquired during the year. Dominion acquired Millstone Power Station (Millstone) on March 31, 2001. Its operations contributed significantly to the increase in nonregulated electric sales. Regulated gas sales, nonregulated gas sales and gas and oil production revenue increased as Consolidated Natural Gas Companys (CNG) operations were included for all of 2001. In addition, 2001 gas and oil production results reflected the inclusion of Louis Dreyfus for two months as well as higher realized prices for gas. Dominions energy trading operations, recorded as nonregulated gas and electric sales, net of cost of sales, also contributed to the overall operating revenue increase. The increase in net income contribution by the segments operations was partially offset by a higher level of specific charges in 2001, as compared to 2000, as described in the discussion of the Corporate and Other segment results. Such charges for 2001 and 2000 totaled $797 million and $579 million, respectively. Interest expense and related charges decreased $27 million, reflecting lower overall interest rates on outstanding debt. Dominions effective income tax rate increased and its other taxes decreased in 2001 because its utility operations in Virginia became subject to state income taxes in lieu of gross receipts taxes effective January 2001. In addition, Dominion recognized higher effective rates for foreign earnings and higher pretax income in relation to non conventional fuel tax credits realized. Dominion Energy (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 5,940 $ 6,144 $ 4,894 Operating expenses 4,520 4,749 3,939 Net income contribution 770 723 489 Earnings per share contribution $ 2.72 $ 2.86 $ 2.07 Electricity supplied* (million mwhrs) 101 95 83 Gas transmission throughput (bcf) 597 553 567 * Amounts presented are for electricity supplied by utility and merchant generation operations. Operating Results 2002 Dominion Energy contributed $2.72 per diluted share on net income of $770 million for 2002, a net income increase of $47 million and an earnings per share decrease of $0.14 over 2001. Net income for 2002 reflected lower operating revenue ($204 million), operating expenses ($229 million) and other income ($27 million). Interest expense and income taxes, which are discussed on a consolidated basis, decreased $50 million over 2001. The earnings per share decrease reflected share dilution. Regulated electric sales revenue increased $179 million. Favorable weather conditions, reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days, as well as customer growth, are estimated to have contributed $133 million and $41 million, respectively. Fuel rate recoveries increased approximately $65 million for 2002. These recoveries are generally offset by increases in electric fuel expense and do not materially affect income. Partially offsetting these increases was a net decrease of $60 million due to other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased $9 million. Sales revenue from Dominions merchant generation fleet decreased $21 million, reflecting a $201 million decline due to lower prices partially offset by sales from assets acquired and constructed in 2002 and the inclusion of Millstone operations for all of 2002. Revenue from the wholesale marketing of utility generation decreased $74 million. Due to the higher 26 Table of Contents demand of utility service territory customers during 2002, less production from utility plant generation was available for profitable sale in the wholesale market. Revenue from retail energy sales increased $71 million, reflecting primarily customer growth over the prior year. Net revenue from Dominions electric trading activities increased $33 million, reflecting the effect of favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher trading margins. Nonregulated gas sales revenue decreased $351 million. The decrease included a $239 million decrease in sales by Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations, reflecting to a large extent declining prices. Revenue associated with gas trading operations, net of related cost of sales, decreased $112 million. The decrease included $70 million of realized and unrealized losses on the economic hedges of natural gas production by the Dominion Exploration & Production segment. As described below under Selected Information Energy Trading Activities, sales of natural gas by the Dominion Exploration & Production segment at market prices offset these financial losses, resulting in a range of prices contemplated by Dominions overall risk management strategy. The remaining $42 million decrease was due to unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower overall trading margins. Those losses were partially offset by contributions from higher trading volumes in gas and oil markets. Gas transportation and storage revenue decreased $44 million, primarily reflecting lower rates. Electric fuel and energy purchases expense increased $94 million which included an increase of $66 million associated with Dominions energy marketing operations that are not subject to cost based rate regulation and an increase of $28 million associated with utility operations. Substantially all of the increase associated with non regulated energy marketing operations related to higher volumes purchased during the year. For utility operations, energy costs increased $66 million for purchases subject to rate recovery, partially offset by a $38 million decrease in fuel expenses associated with lower wholesale marketing of utility plant generation. Purchased gas expense decreased $245 million associated with Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations. This decrease reflected approximately $162 million associated with declining prices and $83 million associated with lower purchased volumes. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases decreased $64 million, primarily reflecting comparably lower levels of rate recoveries of certain costs of transmission operations in the current year period. The difference between actual expenses and amounts recovered in the period are deferred pending future rate adjustments. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased $14 million, primarily reflecting an $18 million decrease in outage costs due to fewer generation unit outages in the current year. Depreciation expense decreased $11 million, reflecting decreases in depreciation associated with changes in the estimated useful lives of certain electric generation property, partially offset by increased depreciation associated with State Line and Millstone operations. Other income decreased $27 million, including a $14 million decrease in net realized investment gains in the Millstone decommissioning trusts. In addition, the decrease included a $12 million decline in equity income from Elwood Energy, an equity method investment, reflecting higher interest expense due to the issuance of additional debt by that company in 2002. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Energy contributed $2.86 per diluted share on net income of $723 million for 2001, an increase of $234 million and $0.79 per diluted share over 2000 results. The increase in net income reflected a full year of CNG operations in 2001, the acquisition of Millstone and reductions in certain operating expenses. Operating revenue increased $1.3 billion to $6.1 billion in 2001, as compared to 2000 reflecting the acquisition of Millstone and a full year of CNG operations for 2001. Regulated electric sales for 2001 reflected customer growth and comparatively higher fuel rates; however, these increases were largely offset by comparatively mild weather. Millstone operations largely contributed to the increase in non regulated electric sales. Non regulated gas sales and gas transportation and storage revenue increased, reflecting a full year of CNG operations and increased transportation rates. The results of Dominions trading and marketing operations contributed to the overall increase in operating revenue. Operating expenses increased $810 million to $4.7 billion for 2001, as compared to 2000. Higher commodity prices contributed to increased electric fuel and energy purchases and purchased gas. In addition, purchased gas increased, reflecting CNG operations for the entirety of 2001. Depreciation increased overall due to the inclusion of Millstone. This increase was partially offset by an extension of the estimated useful lives of Dominions nuclear plants in connection with the expected relicensing of those plants. This change in estimate resulted in a $78 million decrease in depreciation expense. Purchased capacity decreased as Dominion terminated certain contracts in early 2001. Other operations and maintenance increased due to the inclusion of Millstone operations and scheduled outages at both nuclear and fossil plants. 27 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Selected Information Energy Trading Activities As previously described, Dominion Energy manages Dominions energy trading, hedging and arbitrage activities through the Clearinghouse. Dominion believes these operations complement its integrated energy businesses and facilitate its risk management activities. As part of these operations, the Clearinghouse enters into contracts for purchases and sales of energy related commodities, including natural gas, electricity and oil. Settlement of a contract may require physical delivery of the underlying commodity or, in some cases, an exchange of cash. These contracts are classified as energy trading contracts for financial accounting purposes. The contracts are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as components of current and non current derivative and energy trading assets and liabilities. Gains and losses from energy trading contracts, including both realized and unrealized amounts, are reported net in the Consolidated Statements of Income as revenue. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, Dominion reports energy trading contracts in its financial statements at fair value. A discussion of how Dominion determines fair value for its energy trading contracts, can be found in Critical Accounting Policies presented earlier in MD&A. The Clearinghouse enters into contracts with the objective of benefiting from changes in the prices of energy commodities. Clearinghouse management continually monitors its contract positions, considering location and timing of delivery or settlement for each energy commodity in relation to market price activity, seeking arbitrage opportunities. For example, after entering into a contract to purchase a commodity, the Clearinghouse typically enters into a sales contract, or a combination of sales contracts, with quantities and delivery or settlement terms that are identical or very similar to those of the purchase contract. When the purchase and sales contracts are settled either by physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by net cash settlement, the Clearinghouse may receive a net cash margin (a realized gain), or sometimes will pay a net cash margin (a realized loss). Until the contracts are settled, however, Dominion must record the changes in the fair value of both contracts. These changes in fair value represent unrealized gains and losses. To the extent purchase and sales contracts with identical or similar terms are held by the Clearinghouse, the changes in their fair values will generally offset one another. Although the Clearinghouse may hold purchase or sales contracts for delivery of commodities at particular locations and times that have not been offset, such exposures are monitored and actively managed on a daily basis. Dominions risk management policies and procedures are designed to limit its exposure to commodity price changes. Additional discussion can be found in Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2, 15 and 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Dominions implementation of new accounting requirements effective January 1, 2003 to reflect the decision of the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) in Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Contracts under Issue No. 98 10. As a result, some energy related contracts are no longer subject to fair value accounting. During 2002, the Clearinghouse also held derivative financial contracts to manage the price risk of certain anticipated sales of Dominion Exploration & Productions 2002 and 2003 natural gas production (economic hedges). Dominion did not designate these derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes and, as a result, any change in the fair value of these derivatives is included in earnings. During 2002, Dominion Energy recognized a loss of $48 million related to the 2002 economic hedges, representing $43 million from contract settlements and $5 million for the reversal of unrealized gains that existed at December 31, 2001. In addition, Dominion Energy recognized $22 million of unrealized losses in 2002 related to the change in the fair value of the 2003 economic hedges. As anticipated, Dominion Exploration & Production sold sufficient volumes of natural gas in 2002 at market prices, which, when combined with the settlement of the 2002 economic hedges, resulted in a range of prices for those sales contemplated by the risk management strategy. Similarly, Dominion expects the combination of anticipated gas sales and the 2003 economic hedges to result in a range of prices for those sales as contemplated by this risk management strategy in 2003. A summary of the changes in the unrealized gains and losses in Dominions energy trading contracts, including the economic hedges described above, during 2002 follows: (millions) Energy Trading Contracts Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2001 $ 165 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period (40 ) Net unrealized gain at inception of contracts initiated during the period 39 Changes in valuation techniques 6 Other changes in fair value Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2002 $ 170 The balance of net unrealized gains and losses in Dominions energy trading contracts, including the economic hedges discussed above, at December 31, 2002 is summarized 28 Table of Contents in the following table based on the approach used to determine fair value and the contract settlement or delivery dates: (millions) Maturity Based on Contract Settlement or Delivery Date(s) Source of Fair Value Less Than 1 Year 1 2 Years 2 3 Years 3 5 Years In Excess of 5 Years Total Actively quoted(1) $ 8 $ 15 $ 13 $ 36 Other external sources(2) 19 13 $ 13 $ 8 53 Models and other valuation techniques(3) 19 15 14 10 23 81 Total $ 27 $ 49 $ 40 $ 23 $ 31 $ 170 (1) Exchange traded and over the counter contracts. (2) Values based on prices from over the counter broker activity and industry services and, where applicable, conventional option pricing models. (3) Values based on Dominions estimate of future commodity prices when information from external sources is not available and use of internally developed models, reflecting option pricing theory, discounted cash flow concepts, etc. Dominion Delivery (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 2,552 $ 2,963 $ 2,826 Operating expenses 1,653 2,202 2,123 Net income contribution 455 366 339 Earnings per share contribution $ 1.61 $ 1.45 $ 1.43 Electricity delivered (million mwhrs) 75 72 74 Gas throughput (mmcf) 364 357 356 Operating Results 2002 Dominion Delivery contributed $1.61 per diluted share on net income of $455 million for 2002, an increase of $89 million and $0.16 per diluted share over 2001. Net income for 2002 reflected lower operating revenue ($411 million), operating expenses ($549 million) and other income ($37 million). Changes in interest and income taxes, which are discussed on a consolidated basis, were not significant. Regulated electric sales revenue increased $58 million. Favorable weather conditions, reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days, as well as customer growth, are estimated to have contributed $62 million and $19 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was a net decrease of $23 million due to other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Regulated gas sales revenue decreased $533 million, reflecting $550 million for lower gas cost recoveries attributable to lower prices and customer migration, partially offset by the impact of slightly colder weather and other factors. The decrease was substantially offset by a $489 million decrease in purchased gas expense, reflecting the matching of purchased gas costs and gas cost recoveries in rates, and increased gas transportation service revenue. Gas transportation and storage revenue increased $36 million, primarily reflecting the shift of customer status from regulated gas sales to gas transportation service in connection with the switch by distribution customers to other natural gas suppliers. The migration of customers does not generally affect net income, as the recognition of the cost of gas delivered for regulated gas sales customers is matched against rate recoveries. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased $50 million, primarily reflecting lower general and administrative expenses. Depreciation decreased $11 million as a result of changes in the estimated useful lives of electric distribution assets. Other income decreased $37 million, reflecting to a large extent a $27 million increase in equity losses on Dominions telecommunications joint venture. The increased losses reflected lower revenue and increased operating expenses resulting from the expansion into several new markets in 2002. See Notes 30 and 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Delivery contributed $1.45 per diluted share on net income of $366 million for 2001, an increase of $27 million and $0.02 per diluted share over 2000 results. The increase in net income reflects slightly higher gas throughput and slightly lower volumes of electricity delivered, as well as overall higher gas and electric rates. Operating revenue increased $137 million to $3.0 billion for 2001, reflecting a full year of CNG operations for 2001. This is reflected in higher regulated gas sales and gas transportation and storage revenue as a result of higher overall throughput and rates. Regulated electric sales for 2001 reflect customer growth and comparatively higher fuel rates, partially offset by the effect of comparatively milder weather. Operating expenses increased $79 million to $2.2 billion for 2001. Higher prices for commodities delivered or consumed contributed to increased purchased gas expense. In addition, purchased gas increased, as 2000 amounts only included 11 months of CNG operations. 29 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Dominion Exploration & Production (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 1,719 $ 1,460 $ 1,330 Operating expenses 1,111 934 920 Net income contribution 380 320 255 Earnings per share contribution $ 1.34 $ 1.27 $ 1.08 Gas production (bcf) 385 283 258 Oil production (million bbls) 10 7 8 Average realized prices with hedging results:(1) Gas (per mcf) $ 3.40 $ 3.80 $ 3.07 Oil (per bbl) 23.28 23.42 22.26 Average prices without hedging results: Gas (per mcf) 3.03 3.87 3.70 Oil (per bbl) $ 24.44 $ 23.53 $ 23.98 (1) Average realized prices with hedging results do not include the financial losses incurred on the economic hedges which are reported in and discussed as part of the operating results of the Dominion Energy segment. Operating Results 2002 Dominion Exploration & Production contributed $1.34 per diluted share on net income of $380 million, an increase of $60 million and $0.07 per diluted share over 2001. Operating revenue increased $259 million to $1.7 billion for 2002, reflecting higher overall production as a result of the full year operations of Louis Dreyfus and Dominions ongoing drilling programs, partially offset by natural production declines. Average realized gas and oil prices, including the effects of hedging, decreased for the comparative years. Operating expenses increased $177 million to $1.1 billion for 2002, and reflect primarily the impact of including Louis Dreyfus operations in 2002. The increase includes an increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $138 million in connection with the higher levels of production noted above, partially offset by lower depletion rates due primarily to the inclusion of properties from the Louis Dreyfus acquisition. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Exploration & Production contributed $1.27 per diluted share on net income of $320 million, an increase of $65 million and $0.19 per diluted share, as compared to 2000 results. Operating revenue increased $130 million to $1.5 billion for 2001, reflecting a full year of CNG operations for 2001, two months of Louis Dreyfus operations and higher average realized gas and oil prices. The production increases reflect the addition of Louis Dreyfus operations in the fourth quarter of 2001, offset somewhat by natural declines at certain Dominion gas and oil production properties. Operating expenses increased $14 million to $934 million for 2001, as compared to 2000, and include the acquisition of Louis Dreyfus in the fourth quarter of 2001, as well as higher operations and maintenance expenses associated with service industry and contractor costs. Purchases of gas and oil for brokered sales decreased in 2001. Corporate and Other (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Net loss $ (243 ) $ (865 ) $ (647 ) Earnings per share impact $ (0.85 ) $ (3.43 ) $ (2.73 ) Operating Results 2002 The net loss associated with corporate and other operations for 2002 was $243 million and $(0.85) per diluted share, a decrease of $622 million and $2.58 per diluted share over 2001. The decrease in net loss reflected higher operating expenses for 2001 as a result of specific charges described in Operating Results 2001 below. In addition, the decreased net loss for 2002 included an $88 million decrease in operating expenses, due to the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. Operating Results 2001 The net loss associated with corporate and other operations for 2001 was $865 million and $(3.43) per diluted share, an increase of $218 million and $0.70 per diluted share over 2000. These results reflect comparatively higher operating expenses for 2001 that included the following specific items, which are discussed in Notes 6, 8, 9, 15 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements: n a $105 million charge for restructuring activities, including employee severance and termination benefits and costs associated with the termination of leases; n a $281 million charge, reported in other operations and maintenance expense, for the impairment of various DCI investments; n a $151 million charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron; n a $220 million charge, reported in operations and maintenance expense, related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts; and n a $40 million loss on the sale of Saxon Capital, reported in other operations and maintenance expense. Charges in 2000 included restructuring and acquisition related charges of $460 million and DCI impairments of $119 million. These charges were partially offset by the cumulative effect of an accounting change of $21 million. These items are discussed in Notes 3, 8 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Dominion and its subsidiaries depend on both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided by operating activities are generally satisfied with proceeds from short term borrowings. Long term cash needs are met through sales of securities and additional long term debt financing. 30 Table of Contents Internal Sources of Liquidity As presented on Dominions Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, net cash flows from operating activities were $2.4 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Dominions management believes that its operations provide a stable source of cash flow sufficient to contribute to planned levels of capital expenditures and maintain current shareholder dividend levels. As noted above, Dominion uses a combination of debt and equity securities to fund capital requirements not covered by the timing or amounts of operating cash flows. As discussed under Credit Ratings and Cash Requirements for Planned Capital Expenditures below, Dominion is taking steps to improve its financial position in response to current credit rating requirements. As a result of these measures, Dominion may choose to postpone or cancel certain planned capital expenditures, to the extent they are not fully covered by operating cash flows. Dominion would do this in order to mitigate the need for future debt financings, beyond those needed to cover normal maturities and redemptions. Dominions operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact cash flows from operations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: n unusual weather and its effect on energy sales to customers and energy commodity prices; n extreme weather events that could disrupt offshore gas and oil production or cause catastrophic damage to Dominions electric distribution and transmission systems; n exposure to unanticipated changes in prices for energy commodities purchased or sold, including the effect on derivative instruments that may require the use of funds to post margin deposits with counterparties; n effectiveness of Dominions risk management activities and underlying assessment of market conditions and related factors, including energy commodity prices, basis, liquidity, volatility, counterparty credit risk, availability of generation and transmission capacity, currency exchange rates and interest rates; n the cost of replacement electric energy in the event of longer than expected or unscheduled generation outages; n contractual or regulatory restrictions on transfers of funds among Dominion and its subsidiaries; and n timeliness of recovery for costs subject to cost of service utility rate regulation. External Sources of Liquidity Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and CNG (collectively the Dominion Companies) rely on bank and capital markets as a significant source of funding for capital requirements not satisfied by cash provided by the companies operations. As discussed further in the Credit Ratings section below, the Dominion Companies ability to borrow funds or issue securities and the return demanded by investors are affected by the issuing companys credit ratings. In addition, the raising of external capital is subject to certain regulatory approvals, including the SEC and, in the case of Virginia Power, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission). During 2002, the Dominion Companies issued long term debt (net of exchanged debt), trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock totaling approximately $4.85 billion. The proceeds were used primarily to repay other debt and to finance capital expenditures. Credit Facilities and Short Term Debt The Dominion Companies use short term debt, primarily commercial paper, to fund working capital requirements and as bridge financing for acquisitions. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly during the course of the year, depending upon the timing and amount of cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. The commercial paper programs are supported by the credit facilities discussed below. At December 31, 2002, the Dominion Companies had the following short term debt outstanding and capacity available under credit facilities: (millions) Facility Limit Outstanding Commercial Paper Outstanding Letters of Credit Facility Capacity Remaining 364 day revolving joint credit facility $ 1,250 Three year revolving joint credit facility 750 Total joint credit facilities(1) 2,000 $ 1,193 $ 106 $ 701 CNG credit facility(2) 500 500 Cove Point bridge facility(3) 250 250 Totals $ 2,750 $ 1,193 $ 606 $ 951 (1) The joint credit facilities support borrowings by the Dominion Companies. The 364 day revolving credit facility terminates in May 2003 and the three year revolving credit facility terminates in May 2005. Dominion expects to renew the 364 day revolving credit facility prior to its maturity. (2) This credit facility is used to support the issuance of letters of credit and commercial paper by CNG to fund collateral requirements under its gas and oil hedging program. The credit facility terminates in August 2003. (3) Dominion financed its acquisition of Cove Point with commercial paper supported by this facility. The facility terminated on March 5, 2003 and was not renewed. 31 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Long Term Debt During 2002, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries issued the following long term debt: Type Principal Rate Maturity Issuing Company (millions) Medium termnotes $ 250 3.875 % 2004 Dominion Resources Equity linked debt securities 330 5.75 % 2008 Dominion Resources Senior notes 1,620 5.125 6.75 % % 2009 2032 Dominion Resources Senior notes 650 5.375 % 2007 Virginia Power Medium term notes(1) 83 5.72 % 2005 Dominion Canada Finance Company Bankers acceptances(1) 13 3.58 % 2003 Dominion Exploration Canada Ltd. Total long term debt issued 2,946 Less direct exchanges(2) (637) Total long term debt issued, excluding direct exchanges $ 2,309 (1) Securities are denominated in Canadian dollars but presented here in US dollars, based on exchange rates as of date of issuance. (2) During 2002, Virginia Power redeemed $117 million of 6.75 percent mortgage bonds due 2007 in a direct exchange for 5.375 percent senior notes due 2007. Also during 2002, Dominion redeemed $200 million of 7.40 percent remarketable senior notes and $250 million variable rate remarketable senior notes, both due 2012, in a direct exchange for $520 million 5.70 percent senior notes due 2012. That principal amount was determined by an exchange ratio based on the fair value of the remarketable senior notes. The direct exchanges are discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2002, Dominion issued $300 million of 5.125 percent senior notes due 2009 and $300 million of 6.75 percent senior notes due 2032. Dominion placed $500 million of proceeds in escrow to be used solely to repay a portion of certain Dominion senior notes maturing in January 2003. The remaining principal amount of the maturing senior notes was repaid through the issuance of additional commercial paper in January 2003. In February 2003, Dominion Resources issued $300 million of 2.80 percent senior notes due 2005 and $400 million of 4.125 percent senior notes due 2008. Also in February 2003, Dominion Resources issued $500 million of variable rate senior notes due 2013, in a private placement of the securities. In February 2003, Virginia Power issued $400 million of 4.75 percent senior notes due 2013. In March 2003, Dominion issued $300 million of 5.0 percent senior notes due 2013 and $300 million of 6.30 percent senior notes due 2033. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used primarily for Dominions tender offering for Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC senior notes, debt maturities, commercial paper and other general corporate purposes. The acquisition of Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC senior notes is discussed in MD&A under Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2002, Dominion and its subsidiaries repaid $1.6 billion of long term debt securities. Trust Preferred Securities During 2002, Virginia Power, through a capital trust subsidiary, issued $400 million of 7.375 percent trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities must be redeemed when the trusts sole assets, the junior subordinated notes due 2042 issued by Virginia Power, are repaid. Virginia Power used the net proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities primarily to redeem its variable rate preferred stock as discussed under Preferred Stock below for $250 million and $135 million of 8.05 percent trust preferred securities of Virginia Power Capital Trust I. Trust preferred securities are discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Preferred Stock During 2002, Virginia Power issued 1,250 units consisting of 1,000 shares per unit of cumulative preferred stock for $125 million. Proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The preferred stock has a dividend rate of 5.50 percent until the end of the initial dividend period on December 20, 2007. The dividend rate for subsequent periods will be determined according to periodic auctions. The preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $100 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. During 2002, Virginia Power used the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to redeem its variable rate preferred stock October 1988 Series, June 1989 Series, September 1992A Series, and September 1992B Series for $250 million. Preferred stock is discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Common Stock During 2002, Dominion issued 44 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $2.0 billion. Approximately 38 million shares and proceeds of $1.7 billion resulted from two public offerings. Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, principally repayment of debt. The remainder of the shares issued and proceeds received during 2002 occurred through Dominion Direct&reg; (a dividend reinvestment and open enrollment direct stock purchase plan), employee savings plans and the exercise of employee stock options. During 2002, Dominion also reacquired approximately one million shares of its common stock for $66 million primarily with proceeds received from the exercise of employee stock options. Amounts Available under Shelf Registrations At March 6, 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power, and CNG had approximately $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.5 billion, respectively, of available capacity under currently 32 Table of Contents effective shelf registrations. Securities that may be issued under these shelf registrations, depending upon the registrant, include senior notes (including medium term notes), subordinated notes, first and refunding mortgage bonds, trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock. Credit Ratings Credit ratings are intended to provide banks and capital market participants with a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Management believes that the current credit ratings of the Dominion Companies provide sufficient access to the capital markets. However, disruptions in the bank and capital markets not specifically related to Dominion may affect the Dominion Companies ability to access these funding sources or cause an increase in the return required by investors. Both quantitative (financial strength) and qualitative (business or operating characteristics) factors are considered by the credit rating agencies in establishing an individual companys credit rating. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently. The credit ratings for the Dominion Companies are most affected by each companys financial profile, mix of regulated and non regulated businesses and respective cash flows, changes in methodologies used by the rating agencies and event risk, if applicable, such as major acquisitions. Credit ratings for the Dominion Companies as of March 1, 2003 follow: Standard & Poors Moodys Dominion Resources, Inc. Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ Baa1 Preferred securities of subsidiary trusts BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 Virginia Power Mortgage bonds A A2 Senior unsecured (including tax exempt) debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of subsidiary trust BBB Baa1 Preferred stock BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 1 CNG Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of subsidiary trust BBB Baa1 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 These credit ratings reflect Standard & Poors downgrade of its credit ratings for Virginia Powers debt, preferred securities of subsidiary trusts, preferred stock and commercial paper in October 2002. Based on its conclusions about regulatory insulation in Virginia being no better than other states, Standard & Poors concluded that Virginia Powers ratings should be no more than one notch above the ratings of its parent, Dominion Resources, Inc. Standard & Poors noted that Virginia Powers downgrade is not reflective of any diminished credit protection measures, as Virginia Powers credit protection measures on a stand alone basis remain strong. As of March 1, 2003, Moodys maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of Dominion Resources, Inc. and CNG. Generally, a downgrade in an individual companys credit rating would not restrict its ability to raise short term and long term financing so long as its credit rating remains investment grade, but it would increase the cost of borrowing. Dominion has been working closely with both Standard & Poors and Moodys with the objective of maintaining its current credit ratings. Recent steps to improve the agencies view of Dominions financial position include the reduction of planned capital spending and related borrowings, as discussed below, and the issuance of $2.0 billion of common stock during 2002. As discussed in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results, in order to maintain its current ratings, Dominion may find it necessary to take further steps or change its business plans, and such changes may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. Debt Covenants As part of borrowing funds and issuing debt (both short term and long term) or preferred securities, the Dominion Companies must enter enabling agreements. These agreements contain covenants that, in the event of default, could result in the acceleration of principal and interest payments; restrictions on distributions related to its capital stock, including dividends, redemptions, repurchases, liquidation payments or guarantee payments; and in some cases, the termination of credit commitments unless a waiver of such requirements is agreed to by the lenders/security holders. These provisions are customary, with each agreement specifying which covenants apply. These provisions are not necessarily unique to the Dominion Companies. Some of the typical covenants include: n the timely payment of principal and interest; n information requirements, including submittal of financial reports filed with the SEC to lenders; n keeping books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; n payment of taxes, maintaining insurance; n performance obligations, audits/inspections, continuation of the basic nature of business, restrictions on certain matters related to merger or consolidation, restrictions on disposition of substantial assets; n financial covenants, such as a limit on total funded debt to total capitalization; 33 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued n compliance with collateral minimums or requirements related to mortgage bonds; and n limitations on liens. Dominion monitors the covenants on a regular basis in order to provide assurance that events of default will not occur. As of December 31, 2002, there were no events of default under the Dominion Companies covenants. Investing Activities During 2002, investing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $4.0 billion, reflecting the following: n $1.3 billion that included construction and expansion of generation facilities, including environmental upgrades, purchase of nuclear fuel, and construction and improvements of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets; n $1.5 billion for the purchase and development of gas and oil producing properties, drilling and equipment costs and undeveloped lease acquisitions; n the acquisitions of State Line for $185 million and Cove Point for $225 million; and n contributions to escrow of $500 million that were subsequently used to repay a portion of certain Dominion senior notes maturing in January 2003. Cash Requirements for Planned Capital Expenditures Cash requirements for Dominions planned capital expenditures during 2003, 2004 and 2005 are expected to total approximately $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. These expenditures include construction and expansion of generation facilities, environmental upgrades, construction improvements and expansion of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets, purchases of nuclear fuel and expenditures to develop natural gas and oil properties. Dominion expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from operations, and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Leasing Arrangements As of December 31, 2002, Dominion, through certain subsidiaries, has entered into agreements with special purpose entities (lessors) in order to finance and lease several new power generation projects, as well as its corporate headquarters and aircraft. As Dominion is considered the owner of the leased property for tax purposes, it is entitled to tax deductions for depreciation not recognized for financial accounting purposes. In addition, because the leases are structured to be operating leases for financial accounting purposes, the assets and related borrowings used to finance the construction of the assets are not included on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although this improves measures of leverage calculated using amounts reported in Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements, credit rating agencies view such amounts as debt obligations in evaluating Dominions credit profile. These leasing structures provide a desirable level of operational flexibility. Dominion has been appointed to act as the construction agent for the lessor and controls the design and construction of the facility. Also, Dominion has the option to purchase the facility at the expiration or termination of the lease and thus may benefit from any appreciation in the value of the facility. While Dominion is exposed to sharing in any loss that could occur if the project were terminated prior to completion or sold after being completed, such exposure is limited to a stated percentage of the realized loss, as discussed below. In addition, under the terms of each lease, the lessee generally retains operational control of the facility. At December 31, 2002, the lessors had an aggregate financing commitment from equity and debt investors of $2.2 billion. Of that amount, $1.6 billion had been used for total project costs. Total project costs at December 31, 2002 included approximately $288 million of costs advanced by Dominion to the lessor, that will be reimbursed by the lessor during the second quarter of 2003. Dominion, in its role as construction agent for the lessors, is responsible for completing construction by a specified date. In the event a project is terminated before completion, Dominion has the option either to purchase the project for 100 percent of project costs or terminate the project and make a payment to the lessor of approximately, but no more, than 89.9 percent of project costs. Upon completion of each individual project, Dominion has use of the project assets subject to an operating lease. Dominions lease payments to the lessors are sufficient to provide a return to the investors. At the end of each individual projects lease term, Dominion may renew the lease at negotiated amounts based on project costs and current market conditions, subject to investors approval; purchase the project at its original construction cost; or sell the project, on behalf of the lessors, to an independent third party. If the project is sold and the proceeds from the sale are insufficient to repay the investors, Dominion may be required to make a payment to the lessors up to an amount ranging from 81 percent to 85 percent of the project cost, depending on the individual project and applicable agreement. Dominion has guaranteed a portion of the obligations of its subsidiaries to the lessors during the construction and post construction periods. Neither the guarantees nor the underlying transaction documents contain any type of credit rating or stock price trigger events. In February 2003, pursuant to the terms of its lease agreement, Dominion purchased the electric generation facility under construction in Dresden, Ohio for $266 million. This amount was included in total project costs of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2002. Dominion expects to complete construction in 2005 at an estimated cost of $350 million. 34 Table of Contents Annual minimum lease payments under these leases for assets currently in use total approximately $38 million. Projects being developed under leasing arrangements are scheduled for completion in 2003 and 2004. Annual lease payments for these projects are estimated to be $7 million for 2003 and $79 million by 2005. The leases are discussed in Notes 4 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Securitizations of Mortgages and Loans As of December 31, 2002, Dominion held $448 million of retained interests from securitizations of mortgage and commercial loans completed in prior years. Dominion did not securitize or originate loans in 2002. Investors in the securitization trusts have no recourse to Dominions other assets for failure of debtors to repay principal and interest on the underlying loans when due. Therefore, Dominions exposure to any future losses from this activity is limited to its investment in retained interests. Securitizations are discussed in Accounting for retained interests from securitizations under Critical Accounting Policies and Notes 2, 9 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC As discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion has accounted for its 50 percent voting interest in Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC (DFV), a telecommunications joint venture, under the equity method. In connection with its formation, DFV issued $665 million of senior notes due March 2005. As DFV was not consolidated by Dominion, these notes were not reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2002. The DFV senior notes were secured in part by Dominion convertible preferred stock held in trust. Dominion was the beneficial owner of the trust and included it in the preparation of its Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to Dominions repurchase of substantially all of the outstanding DFV senior notes in February 2003, as described below, the preferred stock would have been subject to being remarketed in an amount sufficient to retire the notes at maturity or earlier if the credit ratings for Dominion Resources, Inc. senior unsecured debt were BBB or Baa3 during a period when the closing price of Dominions common stock was below $45.97 for ten consecutive trading days. If the remarketing of the preferred stock occurred, the convertible preferred stock would have been considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share of Dominions common stock or could have resulted in the issuance of additional shares of Dominion common stock, if converted. Related party transactions between Dominion and DFV included borrowings, payment of interest and the provision of support services by Dominion to DFV. These transactions are discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 23, 2003, Dominion and DFV made a tender and consent offering for the DFV senior notes. Under the terms of the offering, DFV sought the consent of the note holders to remove the stock price and credit downgrade trigger described above as well as certain other related modifications to the indenture. Dominion offered to purchase for cash all of the outstanding notes. The consent and tender offer was successful, resulting in the removal of the stock price and credit downgrade trigger and the purchase of $633 million of the outstanding notes by Dominion on February 21, 2003. Dominion paid a total of $664 million for the notes acquired, using proceeds from the sale of $700 million of senior notes in February 2003. As a result of this transaction, Dominion will consolidate the results of DFV in its financial statements beginning in February 2003. The DFV senior notes held by Dominion will be eliminated in consolidation. Furthermore, since Dominion holds substantially all of the DFV Senior Notes, it is unlikely that the remarketing of the Dominion convertible preferred stock held in trust, discussed above, would ever occur. After the transaction, $21 million of the DFV senior notes remain outstanding in the hands of the third parties. Dominion will recognize a pre tax charge of approximately $60 million on the effective extinguishment of the acquired notes in the first quarter of 2003. The charge will consist primarily of the premium paid to acquire the notes, the consent fee paid to the note holders and the write off of unamortized debt costs related to the original issuance of the DFV senior notes. The charge will be reported in the Corporate and Other segment. See Outlook for 2003. Contractual Obligations Presented below is a summary of Dominions contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002. These items are discussed in Notes 21, 22 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years (millions) Long term debt $ 14,205 $ 2,125 $ 2,259 $ 2,766 $ 7,055 Trust preferred securities 1,400 1,400 Lease obligations(1) 478 94 176 129 79 Power purchase contracts 8,606 687 1,315 1,232 5,372 Fuel and other commitments 1,844 645 686 365 148 Total $ 26,533 $ 3,551 $ 4,436 $ 4,492 $ 14,054 (1) Amounts relate to in service assets as of December 31, 2002. Estimated lease payments for leased assets under construction, as described in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are estimated to be $7 million in 2003 increasing to $79 million by 2005, as projects are completed. 35 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Dominion expects to fund these obligations and commitments with cash flow from operations and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. These amounts do not include planned capital expenditures or working capital commitments, such as the repayment of short term debt and settlement of derivative and energy trading contracts, or amounts for interest or distributions payable on securities issued by Dominion. As described in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion Resources, Inc. and certain subsidiaries have entered agreements that provide financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of unconsolidated entities and officers. At December 31, 2002, these guarantees totaled $102 million. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Issues and Outlook Regulated Electric Operations Electric Deregulation Legislation Virginia Enacted In 1999, the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (the Virginia Restructuring Act) establishes a plan to restructure Virginias electric utility industry. The Act provides for the phase in of choice for retail customers from January 1, 2002 through January 1, 2004. As ordered by the Virginia Commission, Dominion made retail choice available to all of its Virginia regulated electric customers as of January 1, 2003. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions Virginia jurisdictional operations was no longer subject to cost based rate regulation as of January 1, 2002. Dominions base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) will remain capped until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner under the Act. Recovery of generation related costs will continue through capped rates, and, where applicable, a wires charge assessed on those customers opting for alternative suppliers. Dominion may petition the Virginia Commission to terminate the capped rates after January 1, 2004. If Dominion were to request that the capped rates be terminated, the Virginia Commission may terminate the capped rates if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists within Dominions service area. Additionally, the Virginia Restructuring Act provides that after the end of the capped rate period, any default service provided by Dominion will be based upon competitive market prices for electric generation services. The Virginia Commission has opened a proceeding to determine the components of default service in Virginia. North Carolina The North Carolina General Assembly has been exploring the future of electric service in North Carolina, the development of a competitive wholesale market and retail competition. However, to date, there has been no significant activity. Virginia Commission Report on the Status of Competition in Virginia In August 2002, the Virginia Commission submitted to the Governor and the Legislative Transition Task Force (Task Force) its status report on the development of a competitive retail market for electric generation within Virginia. In an addendum to the report, the Virginia Commission recommended that state policymakers should decide promptly whether to proceed with or delay implementation of the Virginia Restructuring Act, in light of recent developments impacting electric industry restructuring in Virginia, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissions (FERC) issuance of a notice of proposed rule making on Standard Market Design. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Legislation that would delay entry into a regional transmission organization (RTO) until on or after July 1, 2004 was approved by the Virginia General Assembly in February 2003 and is now awaiting action by the Governor. The proposed legislation also would require Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join a RTO. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its transmission assets to a RTO by January 1, 2005. Separation of Generation and Delivery Operations in Virginia Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, Virginia Power separated its generation, distribution, and transmission functions through creation of divisions within Virginia Power. Virginia codes of conduct ensure that Virginia Powers generation and other divisions operate independently and prevent cross subsidies between the generation and other divisions. Economic Risks and Benefits During the Transition to a Competitive Electric Marketplace in Virginia As previously discussed, Dominion will recover generation related costs through capped rates and wires charges, where applicable, assessed to those customers opting for alternative suppliers during the transition period, which extends until July 2007, unless modified or terminated earlier under the Virginia Restructuring Act. Under the Act, Dominion may request a termination of the capped rates at any time after January 1, 2004, and the Virginia Commission may grant Dominions request to terminate the capped rates, if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists in Dominions service area. While Dominion is exposed to certain risks as a result of the deregulation of its utility 36 Table of Contents operations, it also has the opportunity to realize potential benefits during this transition period, if management is successful in preparing for the change in the environment in which its generation related business operates. Stranded Costs Stranded costs are those costs incurred or commitments made by utilities under cost based regulation that may not be reasonably expected to be recovered in a competitive market. At December 31, 2002, Dominions exposure to potentially stranded costs consisted of long term purchased power contracts that could ultimately be determined to be above market; generating plants that could possibly become uneconomical in a deregulated environment; and unfunded obligations for nuclear plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits not yet recognized in the financial statements. Dominion believes capped electric retail rates and, where applicable, wires charges will provide an opportunity to recover a portion of its potentially stranded costs, depending on market prices of electricity and other factors. Recovery of Dominions potentially stranded costs remains subject to numerous risks even in the capped rate environment. These include, among others, exposure to long term power purchase commitment losses, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, nuclear decommissioning costs, inflation, increased capital costs, and recovery of certain other items. These items are discussed in Notes 16, 26 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The enactment of deregulation legislation in 1999 not only caused the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, for Dominions utility generation related operations but also caused Dominion to review its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential loss at that time. Significant assumptions considered in that review included possible future market prices for fuel and electricity, load growth, generating unit availability and future capacity additions in Dominions market, capital expenditures, including those related to environmental improvements, and decommissioning activities. Based on those analyses, no recognition of plant impairments or contract losses was appropriate at that time. In response to future events resulting from the development of a competitive market structure in Virginia and the expiration or termination of capped rates and wires charges, Dominion may have to reevaluate its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses. Assumptions about future market prices for electricity represent a critical factor that affects the results of such evaluations. Since 1999, market prices for electricity have fluctuated significantly and will continue to be subject to volatility. Any such review in the future, which would be highly dependent on assumptions considered appropriate at the time, could possibly result in the recognition of plant impairment or contract losses that would be material to Dominions results of operations or its financial position. In December 2002, the Task Force requested the Virginia Commission to convene a work group on stranded costs. The work group will attempt to develop a consensus methodology for determining the over or under recovery of stranded costs. The Virginia Commission will report the work groups findings to the Task Force by July 1, 2003. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Changes to Cost Structure While the Virginia Restructuring Act did not define specific generation related costs to be recovered, it did provide generation related cash flows (through the combination of capped rates and wires charges billed to customers) during the transition period. The generation related cash flows provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act are intended to compensate Dominion for continuing to provide generation services and to allow Dominion management to incur costs to restructure such operations during the transition period. As a result, during the transition period, Dominion may realize an increased rate of return on its generation related operations to the extent that management can favorably alter the cost structure underlying its utility generation related operations. Conversely, the same risks affecting the recovery of Dominions stranded costs, discussed above, may also adversely impact its cost structure during the transition period. Accordingly, Dominion could realize the negative economic impact of any such adverse event. In addition to managing the cost of its generation related operations, Dominion may also seek opportunities to sell available electric energy and capacity to customers beyond its electric utility service territory. Using cash flows from operations during the transition period, Dominion may further alter its cost structure or choose to make additional investment in its business. The capped rates were derived from rates established as part of the 1998 Virginia rate settlement and do not provide for specific recovery of particular generation related expenditures, except for certain regulatory assets. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent that Dominion manages its operations to reduce its overall operating costs below those levels contemplated by the capped rates, Dominions earnings may increase. Since the enactment of the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominion has been reviewing its cost structure to identify opportunities to reduce the annual operating expenses of its generation related operations. For example, in 2001 Dominion terminated certain long term power purchase agreements resulting in an after tax charge of $136 million. By avoiding fixed capacity payments that would have otherwise been required under the contracts, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $30 million during the transition period. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Also in 2002 and 2001, Dominion revised the estimated useful lives of its electric generation, transmission and distribution assets. The changes in estimates were based upon expected life extensions of nuclear plants and new engineering studies of the other assets. As a result of these changes, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $88 million during the transition period. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. RTO The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join a RTO. FERC encourages RTO formation as a means to foster the formation of wholesale markets. FERC Order No. 2000 requires each public utility that owns or operates transmission facilities to make certain filings with respect to RTO formation, but will rely on voluntary formation of RTOs to advance its energy policies. By joining a RTO, Dominions regulated electric utility subsidiary, Virginia Power, would transfer functional control of its transmission assets to a RTO, a third party. In September 2002, Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into the PJM South Implementation Agreement. The agreement provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM, transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region, integrate its control area into the PJM energy markets and otherwise facilitate the establishment and operation of PJM as the RTO with respect to Dominions transmission facilities. The agreement also contemplates additional agreements and transmission tariff provisions to be negotiated by the parties and allocates costs of implementation of the agreement among the parties. Dominion intends to file for FERC approval to join PJM in the future. Dominion will also seek authorization from the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Utilities Commission to become a member of PJM at that time. Dominion will incur integration and operating costs associated with joining a RTO. Dominion has deferred certain of those costs for future recovery and is giving further consideration to seeking regulatory approval to defer the balance of such costs. In December 2002, American Electric Power, Commonwealth Edison Company, Dayton Power and Light Company (collectively, the New PJM Companies), PJM and Dominion tendered a joint filing with FERC. The joint filing proposes to (1) include the New PJM Companies transmission facilities within PJM functional control; (2) establish a transmission rate for the existing PJM region, Dominion and the New PJM Companies; (3) adopt a transitional rate method to maintain transmission revenue for Dominion and the New PJM Companies and (4) amend certain agreements on file with FERC concerning the PJM energy market, planning processes and system operations as related to the integration of the New PJM Companies into PJM. Also in December 2002, Dominion filed with FERC an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to establish a transitional transmission rate method that would apply from the time American Electric Power and Commonwealth Edison Company would begin to participate under the PJM transmission tariff until Dominion joins PJM. Legislation that would delay entry into a RTO until on or after July 1, 2004 was approved by the Virginia General Assembly in February 2003 and is now awaiting action by the Governor. The proposed legislation also would require Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join a RTO. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its transmission assets to a RTO by January 1, 2005. FERC Standard Market Design Proposal In July 2002, FERC issued proposed rules that would establish a standardized transmission service and wholesale electric market design for entities participating in wholesale electric markets. FERC proposed to exercise jurisdiction over the transmission component of bundled retail transactions, modify the existing electric transmission tariff to include a single tariff service applicable to all transmission customers and provide a standard market design for wholesale electric markets. FERC also proposed that transmission owners that have not yet joined a RTO must contract with a separate entity, an independent transmission provider, to operate their transmission facilities. FERC scheduled a number of technical conferences and meetings with interested parties and has indicated that the market design and timing of the rule is subject to change. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Wholesale Competition Dominions electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale market under its market based sales tariff authorized by FERC but has agreed not to make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located within its service territory. In February 2002, Dominions electric utility subsidiary received FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside its service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary. Dominions sales of natural gas, liquid hydrocarbon by products and oil in wholesale markets are not regulated by FERC. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Rate Matters Electric Virginia Dominion filed its Virginia Commission approved unbundled rates reflecting the functional separation of generation, transmission and distribution in January 2002. Base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) are capped and will remain unchanged until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner as provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act. Under the Act, Dominion may request a termination of the capped rates at any time after January 1, 2004, and the Virginia Commission may grant Dominions request to terminate the capped rates, if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists in Dominions service area. Where applicable, wires charges, effective January 1, 2002 and subject to annual adjustment, will be paid by Dominions Virginia jurisdictional retail customers who choose an alternative generation supplier during the capped rate period. In October 2002, the Virginia Commission approved Dominions methodology for its 2003 market prices for generation, including a capacity adder, and the resulting wires charges. The capacity adder reflects the capacity value that the sale of generation is expected to produce in addition to an energy value in market prices. Inclusion of the capacity adder in the market price calculation will reduce wires charge revenues by the amount of the expected additional revenue from the sale of the displaced capacity in the wholesale market. Dominions fuel factor for sales to Virginia jurisdictional customers will remain unchanged for 2003. North Carolina Dominions regulated electric utility cannot request an increase in its North Carolina jurisdictional base rates until 2006, except for certain events that would have a significant financial impact. Fuel rates, however, are still subject to change under annual proceedings. Regulated Gas Distribution Operations Gas Deregulation Legislation Each of the three states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations has enacted or considered legislation regarding deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level. Ohio Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, in cooperation with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (Ohio Commission), Dominion on its own initiative offers retail choice to customers. At December 31, 2002, approximately 647,000 of Dominions 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this open access program. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies. Pennsylvania At December 31, 2002, approximately 106,000 residential and small commercial customers had opted for Energy Choice in Dominions Pennsylvania service area. Nearly all Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers buy natural gas from unregulated suppliers. West Virginia At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets. However, the West Virginia Public Service Commission (West Virginia Commission) has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future. In addition, the West Virginia Commission is developing rules for a code of conduct between utilities and their marketing affiliates, as well as Consumer Protection regulations and Marketer Licensing Rules. In 2002, the West Virginia Commission proposed rules that require that competitive gas service providers be licensed in West Virginia. Rate Matters Gas Distribution When necessary, Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia seek general rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of return are compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general rate increases, certain gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. These purchased gas costs are recovered through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs incurred that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. Interstate Gas Transmission Operations FERC Policy Developments In October 2002, FERC hosted a public policy conference regarding various short and long term issues that impact federal regulation of the natural gas industry. Among other issues, FERC examined supply and demand forecasts, the adequacy of natural gas infrastructure, regulatory policies applicable to liquefied natural gas facilities, offshore gathering policies, and the flexibility of interstate pipeline operations. As a result, FERC is considering adjustments to its future regulatory policies concerning the natural gas industry, including modification of its approach to regulation of liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects. The policy change is intended to encourage additional development of LNG terminals and to increase the availability of imported gas supplies. 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued FERC also continues to pursue rulemaking that will eliminate separate standards of conduct regulations for natural gas pipelines and electric transmission utilities, and replace these requirements with uniform standards applicable to interstate Transmission Providers. The proposed standards would redefine the scope of affiliates covered by standards of conduct for most FERC regulated companies. If the proposed policy is adopted, it will supersede the existing standards, that are applicable to Dominion. Dominion supports the policy goal to ensure competitive interstate energy markets; however, Dominion has advocated adjustments to the proposed rules. Dominion anticipates further action by FERC in early 2003. While Dominion expects the outcome of a final rule to improve its ability to compete with similarly situated transmission providers, it does not expect a final rule to have a short term material impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Rate Matters Gas Transmission Dominion implemented various rate filings, tariff changes and negotiated rate service agreements for its FERC regulated businesses during 2002. In all material respects, these filings were approved by FERC in the form requested by Dominion and were subject to only minor modifications. Dominion has no significant rate matters pending before FERC at this time. Merchant Generation Operations Dominions focus in its power generation business is to participate in power generation projects in the MAIN to Maine region, with the focus on a balanced portfolio of generation assets, while maintaining fuel and regional diversity. The region begins at the Mid America Interconnected Network (MAIN) that includes electric service territories of the upper Midwest and is home to Dominions Kincaid, State Line, and Elwood generating facilities. The target region extends east to Virginia Powers service territory and north to New England, where Dominion operates its Millstone power station. Dominion is benefiting from the CNG acquisition, as it is developing and operating natural gas fired power generation facilities along its natural gas pipeline system. Dominion is in various stages of development for new natural gas fired power generation facilities throughout the MAIN to Maine region with estimated completion dates from 2003 and beyond. Exploration and Production Operations Dominion continues to focus on increasing earnings from gas and oil properties primarily through acquisition and development activities, exploration, and operating efficiencies. The November 2001 acquisition of Louis Dreyfus represented the addition of significant, long lived natural gas reserves located in several onshore United States regions serving northeast markets. This addition also provided significant new development drilling opportunities, complementing Dominions existing development and exploration activities. The emphasis toward increased acquisition and development activities, as a complement to the higher risk exploration program, was further supported by the 2002 purchase of several onshore properties having additional development drilling and production enhancement potential. Pipeline Operations Dominion plans to expand its natural gas transmission system with a $497 million, 279 mile interstate pipeline. The Greenbrier Pipeline will originate in Kanawha County, West Virginia, and extend through southwest Virginia into Granville County, North Carolina. Piedmont Natural Gas is a 33 percent owner in the pipeline project. Telecommunications Operations Dominion continues the expansion of its operations as a competitive provider of telecommunications services. These services include providing facilities based, high bandwidth capacity throughout the eastern United States with particular concentration on under served markets. The future growth of its business will involve adding new customers and revenues, lighting its network, developing product extensions, and acquiring select assets. Dominion is building a balanced portfolio of customers representing multiple industry segments. See Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the consolidation of Dominions telecommunications joint venture beginning in February 2003. Environmental Matters Dominion is subject to costs resulting from a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect human health and the environment. These laws and regulations affect future planning and existing operations. They can result in increased capital, operating and other costs as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations. Historically, Dominion recovered such costs arising from regulated electric operations through utility rates. However, to the extent that environmental costs are incurred in connection with operations regulated by the Virginia Commission, during the period ending June 30, 2007, in excess of the level currently included in the Virginia jurisdictional electric retail rates, Dominions results of operations will decrease. After that date, recovery through regulated rates may be sought for only those environmental costs related to regulated electric transmission and distribution operations. Dominion also may seek recovery through regulated rates for environmental expenditures related to regulated gas transmission and distribution operations. 40 Table of Contents Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures Dominion incurred approximately $123 million, $116 million and $94 million of expenses (including depreciation) during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, in connection with environmental protection and monitoring activities, and expects these expenses to be approximately $120 million in 2003. In addition, capital expenditures related to environmental controls were $335 million, $221 million and $214 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The estimated amount for these expenditures is $260 million for 2003. Clean Air Act Compliance The Clean Air Act requires Dominion to reduce its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NOX ), which are gaseous by products of fossil fuel combustion. The Clean Air Acts SO2 reduction program is based on the issuance of a limited number of SO2 emission allowances. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of SO2 into the atmosphere. The allowances may be transacted with a third party. Implementation of projects to comply with SO2 and NOX limitations are ongoing and will be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, availability of allowances, various state and federal control programs, and emission control technology. In response to NOX reduction requirements mandated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for states in which it operates, Dominion plans to install NOX reduction equipment by 2005 at its affected coal fired generating facilities. The installation of this equipment is estimated to cost approximately $715 million, of which $445 million has been incurred as of December 31, 2002. EPA is planning to issue additional regulations to address non attainment of the new ozone and fine particulate standards within the next few years, as well as ongoing regulatory action associated with regional haze. That regulatory action could require additional reductions in SO2 and NOX emissions from Dominions fossil fuel fired generating facilities. In addition, EPA is in the process of developing a proposed standard for mercury emissions for electric utility coal fired boilers that could require significant mercury emission reductions from all of Dominions coal fired generating units. If these more stringent emission reduction requirements are imposed in the future, new and perhaps significant expenditures could be required. Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact of implementing these potential requirements on its operations at this time. The United States Congress is considering various multi pollutant legislative proposals that would require fossil fuel fired generating units to comply with more stringent pollution control standards for air emissions. Many of the proposals would rely upon flexible cap and trade programs for compliance and would exempt covered facilities from other Clean Air Act requirements. They would phase in the emission reduction requirements under a variety of timeframes, up to 16 years. Dominion cannot predict whether any of these proposals will pass this year or in the future. However, if more stringent emissions standards are ultimately imposed on Dominions generating units, new, perhaps significant, expenditures could be required. Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact on its operations at this time. During 2000, Virginia Power received a Notice of Violation from EPA, alleging that Virginia Power failed to obtain New Source Review permits under the Clean Air Act prior to undertaking specified construction projects at the Mt. Storm Power Station in West Virginia. The Attorney General of New York filed a suit against Virginia Power alleging similar violations of the Clean Air Act at the Mt. Storm Power Station. Virginia Power also received notices from the Attorneys General of Connecticut and New Jersey of their intentions to file suit for similar violations. In December 2002, the Attorney General of Connecticut filed a motion to intervene as a plaintiff in the action filed by the New York State Attorney General. This action has been stayed. Management believes that Virginia Power has obtained the necessary permits for its generating facilities. Virginia Power has reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and the state of New York to resolve this situation. The agreement in principle includes payment of a $5 million civil penalty, a commitment of $14 million for environmental projects in Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, and a 12 year, $1.2 billion capital investment program for environmental improvements at the Companys coal fired generating stations in Virginia and West Virginia. Virginia Power had already committed to a substantial portion of the $1.2 billion expenditures for SO2 and NOx emissions controls. The negotiations over the terms of a binding settlement have expanded beyond the basic agreement in principle and are ongoing. As of December 31, 2002, Virginia Power has recorded, on a discounted basis, $18 million for the civil penalty and environmental projects. In 2002, EPA issued a Section 114 request for information about whether projects undertaken at Virginia Powers Chesterfield, Chesapeake, Yorktown, Possum Point and Bremo Bluff power stations were properly permitted under the Clean Air Acts New Source Review requirements, to which Virginia Power responded in a timely manner. In 2002, the EPA issued a Section 114 request for information about whether Morgantown Energy Associates (MEA) facility in Morgantown, West Virginia is in 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued compliance with environmental requirements. MEA is a 50 percent owned equity method investment. EPA made a site visit and at that time received the requested information. In September 2002, MEA received a copy of EPAs inspection report summarizing the facts surrounding the visit. MEA is prepared to resolve follow up questions from EPA. Global Climate Change In 1997, the United States signed an international Protocol to limit man made greenhouse emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. However, the Protocol will not become binding unless approved by the U.S. Senate. Currently, the Bush Administration has indicated that it will not pursue ratification of the Protocol, and has set a voluntary goal of reducing the nations greenhouse gas emission intensity by 18 percent over the next ten years. However, the United States Congress is considering legislation that could impose mandatory reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. The cost of compliance with the Protocol or other mandatory greenhouse gas reduction obligations could be significant for Dominion. Given the highly uncertain outcome and timing of future action by the U.S. federal government on this issue, Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact of climate change action on its operations at this time. Accounting Matters The FASB has issued several new standards that will affect Dominion beginning in 2003. These include: SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations; Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others An Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107; and Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. In addition, the EITF rescinded EITF Issue No. 98 10. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the impact of adopting these new accounting standards and information about other standard setting activities. Outlook for 2003 Dominion believes its operating businesses will provide a stable contribution to net income on a per share basis in 2003, with future growth in 2004. However, Dominions earnings per share for 2003, on a consolidated basis, will include the effects of the following items: severance costs under the plan discussed below; fees paid to modify the DFV notes (see Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); and the cumulative effect of implementing changes in accounting for asset retirement obligations and energy trading activities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The 2003 projections for Dominions operating businesses anticipate the following: n Higher sales of gas and oil, reflecting continued growth in production and higher realized prices; n Improved contributions from Millstones operations, resulting from fewer planned outage days and more favorable sales prices; n Expected Six Sigma cost savings; n Potential decrease in regulated electric sales, as compared to 2002, assuming Dominions utility service territories experience a return to normal weather in 2003, partially offset by continued growth in electric utility customers; n Expiration of production tax credits; n Lower pension benefit credits; and n Increased losses from telecommunications operations. Based on these projections, Dominion estimates that cash flow from operations will increase in 2003, as compared to 2002. Such increase, coupled with reductions in discretionary and developmental capital expenditures previously planned for power generation and gas and oil exploration and production projects, will provide sufficient cash flow to maintain Dominions current dividend to common shareholders. Other Matters Pension Costs As discussed in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion maintains qualified noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans. Generally, Dominions funding policy is to contribute annually an amount that is in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Investment experience and market conditions, including interest rates, impact the measurement of these benefit obligations and the cost of providing such benefits. Accordingly, assumptions for discount rates and the expected long term rate of return on investments are important considerations under SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. However, since the objective of SFAS No. 87 is to recognize the cost of providing benefits over employees service period, it permits the delayed recognition of certain elements of retirement plan results. Dominion has reviewed the assumption used for expected long term rate of return on plan assets to better reflect anticipated future market conditions and has adopted an expected rate of 8.75 percent for 2003. This change, combined with other factors such as a revised discount rate assumption of 6.75 percent for 2003, will reduce Dominions 2003 pension credit by an estimated $66 million, as compared to 2002. In addition, in order to maintain the funded status of its retirement plans, Dominion may have to contribute increased amounts to the plans in future years. If, in the future, the accumulated benefit obligations of Dominions retirement 42 Table of Contents plans should exceed the fair value of the plans investments at year end, Dominion would have to recognize a minimum pension liability for that amount. Furthermore, the recognition of a minimum pension liability would require the elimination of any prepaid pension cost reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet at that time, resulting in a charge to other comprehensive income and a material adverse impact on common shareholders equity. Workforce Reductions In January 2003, Dominion announced plans to eliminate some union and salaried positions during 2003. The workforce reductions will affect primarily support positions, including meter readers, supply and warehouse workers and auto mechanics. Many of the reductions result from investments in automated meter reading technology and the purchases of newer, lower maintenance vehicles. Affected workers will be offered severance packages, and benefits for union workers will be negotiated during 2003. Pending completion of the process to identify affected positions, Dominion has not estimated the cost of the workforce reductions. Expiration of Section 29 Tax Credits The Internal Revenue Code Section 29 Credit for the Production of Fuel from Nonconventional Sources (also referred to as the production tax credit) allows income tax credits for certain qualified production, including some natural gas, sold before January 1, 2003. Congress has not acted on legislation to extend this credit beyond 2002 for most qualified production. Whether Congress will take any action to extend the credit during the current term is uncertain. Dominion utilized approximately $36 million of these credits for the year ending December 31, 2002. Nuclear Relicensing Dominion filed applications with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for 20 year life extensions for the North Anna and Surry units in May 2001. The NRC has completed its review of the applications and Dominion expects to receive a renewed license for these units in 2003. Dominion has also performed an internal assessment on the probability of a successful license renewal application for both of its operating Millstone units. Based on this assessment and other factors, Dominion has initiated preparations to apply for a 20 year extension of the licenses for both its operating Millstone units. Dominion expects to file a completed application based on NRC guidelines in 2004. Nuclear Insurance The Price Anderson Act expired in August 2002, but operating nuclear reactors would continue to be covered by the law, which would channel and cap claims if a nuclear accident should occur. The Act has been renewed three times since 1957, and Congress is currently holding hearings to reauthorize the legislation. The expiration of the Act does not impact the coverage of existing nuclear license holders. Effect of Changes in Commodity Prices Dominions operations are impacted by changes in energy commodity prices. When energy commodities are sold by one of Dominions utilities subject to cost of service rate regulation, commodity costs are generally recovered through rates. Market price changes impact Dominions revenue from natural gas and oil production and from commodity sales through unregulated subsidiaries. Dominion has established an enterprise risk management function to evaluate these risks and to recommend actions to management that are intended to mitigate such risks. Future Acquisitions Because Dominions industry is rapidly changing, there are many opportunities for acquisitions of assets, as well as for business combinations. Dominion investigates any opportunity that may increase shareholder value and build on existing businesses, with an objective to enter into transactions that would be immediately accretive to earnings per share. Dominion has participated in the past and its security holders may assume that at any time Dominion may be participating in bidding or other negotiations for such transactions. Such participation may or may not result in a transaction for Dominion. However, any such transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash, debt or equity securities. It may also involve payment of a premium over book or market values. Such transactions or payments could affect the market prices and rates for Dominions securities. Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Dominions financial instruments, commodity contracts and related derivative instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, commodity prices and equity security prices as described below. Interest rate risk generally is related to Dominions outstanding debt and financial services activities. Commodity price risk is present in Dominions electric operations, gas production and procurement operations, and energy marketing and trading operations due to the exposure to market shifts for prices received and paid for natural gas, electricity and other commodities. Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage price risk exposures for these operations. Dominion is exposed to equity price risk through various portfolios of equity securities. Dominions sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued instruments over a selected time period due to a 10 percent unfavorable change in interest rates and commodity prices. Commodity Price Risk Trading Activities As part of its strategy to market energy and to manage related risks, Dominion manages a portfolio of commodity based derivative instruments held for trading purposes. These contracts are sensitive to changes in the prices of natural gas, electricity and certain other commodities. Dominion uses established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these price fluctuations and uses derivative instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, to mitigate risk by creating offsetting market positions. In addition, Dominion seeks to use its generation capacity, when not needed to serve customers in its service territory, to satisfy commitments to sell energy. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $41 million and $12 million in the fair value of its commodity contracts held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Commodity Price Risk Non Trading Activities Dominion manages the price risk associated with purchases and sales of natural gas, oil and electricity by using derivative commodity instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the fair value of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Market prices and volatility are principally determined based on quoted prices on the futures exchange. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in market prices of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of approximately $331 million and $155 million as of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from derivative commodity instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, are generally offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Interest Rate Risk Dominion manages its interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. Dominion also enters into interest rate sensitive derivatives, including interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. In addition, Dominion, through subsidiaries, retains ownership of mortgage investments, including subordinated bonds and interest only residual assets retained at securitization of mortgage loans originated and purchased. For financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would decrease annual earnings by approximately $4 million. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates, as determined at December 31, 2001, would have resulted in a decrease in annual earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discussed investments in retained interests from prior securitizations. Foreign Exchange Risk Dominions Canadian natural gas and oil exploration and production activities are relatively self contained within Canada. As a result, Dominions exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for these activities is limited primarily to the effects of translation adjustments that arise from including that operation in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominions management monitors this exposure and believes it is not material. In addition, Dominion manages its foreign exchange risk exposure associated with anticipated future purchases of uranium enrichment services denominated in foreign currencies by utilizing currency forward contracts. As of result of holding these contracts as hedges, Dominions exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in relevant foreign exchange rates would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $22 million and $5 million in the fair value of currency forward contracts held by Dominion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Investment Price Risk Dominion is subject to investment price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in decommissioning trust funds. In accordance with current accounting standards, these marketable securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. As described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion recognized net realized and unrealized losses on decommissioning trust investments of $150 million for 2002 and $14 million for 2001. Dominion also sponsors employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund benefit payments. To the extent that the values of investments held in these trusts decline, the effect will be reflected in Dominions recognition of the periodic cost of such employee benefit plans and the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit 44 Table of Contents plans. The net realized and unrealized losses on pension trust investments was $241 million for 2002 and $91 million for 2001. Risk Management Policies Dominion has operating procedures in place that are administered by experienced management to help ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, Dominion has established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the risk management policies of all subsidiaries. Dominion maintains credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterpartys financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary, and the use of standardized agreements which facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, Dominion also monitors the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on credit policies and the December 31, 2002 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the effects of Enrons bankruptcy on Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 45 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses the results of operations and general financial condition of Dominion. MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. The term Dominion is used throughout MD&A and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources, Inc., one of Dominion Resources, Inc.s consolidated subsidiaries, or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results This report contains statements concerning Dominions expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In most cases, the reader can identify these forward looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, forecast, expect, believe, should, could, plan, may or other similar words. Dominion makes forward looking statements with full knowledge that risks and uncertainties exist that may cause actual results to be materially different from predicted results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward looking statements themselves. In addition, other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward looking statement. These factors include weather conditions; fluctuations in energy related commodities prices and the effect these could have on Dominions earnings, liquidity position and the underlying value of its assets; trading counterparty credit risk; capital market conditions, including price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in trusts and benefit plans; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in rating agency requirements or ratings; changes in accounting standards; the risks of operating businesses in regulated industries that are becoming deregulated; the transfer of control over electric transmission facilities to a regional transmission organization; completing the divestiture of Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI) and CNG International Corporation; collective bargaining agreements and labor negotiations; and political and economic conditions (including inflation rates). Some more specific risks are discussed below. Dominion bases its forward looking statements on managements beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. Dominion 20 Table of Contents cautions the reader not to place undue reliance on its forward looking statements because the assumptions, beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may, and often do, materially differ from actual results. Dominion undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect developments occurring after the statement is made. Dominions operations are weather sensitive. Dominions results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms and droughts, can be destructive, causing outages, production delays and property damage that requires Dominion to incur additional expenses. Dominion is subject to complex government regulation that could adversely affect its operations. Dominions operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. Dominion must also comply with environmental legislation and other regulations. Management believes the necessary approvals have been obtained for Dominions existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, may require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed Dominions estimates. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment and monitoring obligations. In addition, Dominion may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs and compliance, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Capped electric rates in Virginia may be insufficient to allow full recovery of stranded and other costs. Under the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act, Dominions electric base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) remain unchanged until July 2007 unless modified or terminated consistent with that Act. The capped rates and wires charges that, where applicable, are being assessed to customers opting for alternative suppliers allow Dominion to recover certain generation related costs; however, Dominion remains exposed to numerous risks of cost recovery shortfalls. These include exposure to potentially stranded costs, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, inflation and increased capital costs. See Future Issues and Outlook Regulated Electric Operations and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The electric generation business is subject to competition. Effective January 1, 2002, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations in Virginia is open to competition and is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation. As a result, there is increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of purchased electricity. Because Dominions electric utility generation business has not previously operated in a competitive environment, the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric market in Virginia is unknown. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the extent to which Dominion will be able to operate profitably within this new environment. In addition, the success of Dominions merchant power plants depends upon its ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Depressed spot and forward wholesale power prices and excess capacity could result in lower than expected revenues in Dominions merchant power business. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities. Dominion operates nuclear facilities that are subject to inherent risks. These include the threat of terrorist attack and ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the disposal of which is subject to complex federal and state regulatory constraints. These risks also include the cost of and Dominions ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, costs of plant maintenance and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. Dominion maintains decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses. Dominion uses derivative instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. In the future, Dominion could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the 21 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued valuation of these financial instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion is exposed to market risks beyond its control in its energy clearinghouse operations. Dominions energy clearinghouse and risk management operations are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. Many industry participants have experienced severe business downturns during the past year resulting in some being forced to exit or curtail their participation in the energy trading markets. This has led to a reduction in the number of trading partners, lower industry trading revenues and lower than expected revenues in Dominions energy clearinghouse operations. Declining credit worthiness of some of Dominions trading counterparties may limit the level of its trading activities with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may not perform under a contract. The success of Dominions telecommunications business strategy is dependent upon market conditions. The current strategy of Dominions joint venture in the telecommunications business is based upon its ability to deliver lit capacity, dark fiber and colocation services to its customers. The market for these services, like the telecommunications industry in general, is rapidly changing, and Dominion cannot be certain that anticipated growth in demand for these services will occur. If the market for these services continues to fail to grow as quickly as anticipated or becomes saturated with competitors, including competitors using alternative technologies such as wireless, Dominions equity and debt investments in the telecommunications business, as well as the results from such investments, may continue to be adversely affected. Additionally, the current market values of assets in the telecommunications industry have been subject to depressed market conditions. If these conditions continue, Dominion may have to contribute cash to satisfy operating requirements and the underlying value of Dominions telecommunications investments could be affected adversely which, under certain circumstances, could require a write down of the value of such investments. Dominions exploration and production business is dependent on factors including commodity prices that cannot be predicted or controlled. Dominions exploration and production business is subject to numerous risks beyond its control. These factors include fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, Dominions ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas, and operational risks that are inherent in the exploration and production business and could result in disruption of production. In addition, in connection with the use of financial derivatives to hedge future sales of gas and oil production, Dominions liquidity may sometimes be affected by margin requirements. Under these requirements, Dominion must deposit funds with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. Some of these factors could have compounding effects that could also affect Dominions financial results. Also, because Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), short term market declines in the prices of natural gas and oil could adversely affect its financial results. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. The principal limitation is that these capitalized amounts may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge adjusted period end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test). If net capitalized costs exceed the ceiling test, in a given country, at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of Dominions business plan. Dominion relies on access to both short term money markets and longer term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from its operations. Management believes that Dominion and its subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of Dominions control may increase its cost of borrowing or restrict its ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to Dominions credit ratings. Restrictions on Dominions ability to access financial markets may affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect Dominions growth and business strategy. As of March 1, 2003, Dominions senior unsecured debt is rated BBB+, stable outlook, by Standard & Poors Rating Group, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. (Standard & Poors) and Baa1, negative outlook, by Moodys Investor Service (Moodys). Both agencies have recently implemented more stringent applications of the financial requirements for various ratings levels. In order to maintain its current credit 22 Table of Contents ratings in light of these or future new requirements, Dominion may find it necessary to take steps or change its business plans in ways that may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominions credit ratings by either Standard & Poors or Moodys could increase its borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect Dominions financial results. Dominion cannot predict the impact of future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies, the energy industry or its operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or the SEC that could change the way Dominion records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect Dominions reported earnings or increase its liabilities. Operating Segments In general, managements discussion of Dominions results of operations focuses on the contributions of its operating segments. However, the discussion of Dominions financial condition under Liquidity and Capital Resources is based on legal entities as Dominion transacts business in the financial markets on that basis. Dominions three primary operating segments are: Dominion Energy manages Dominions generation portfolio, consisting primarily of generating units and power purchase agreements. It also manages Dominions energy trading and marketing, hedging and arbitrage activities; and gas pipeline and certain gas production and storage operations. Dominion Energys operating results largely reflect: the impact of weather on demand for electricity; customer growth as influenced by overall economic conditions and acquisitions; and changes in prices of commodities, primarily electricity and natural gas, that the segment actively markets and trades, uses for hedging purposes, and consumes in generation activities. Effective January 1, 2003, Dominions electric transmission operations became a part of Dominion Energy. Dominion Delivery manages Dominions electric and gas distribution systems, as well as customer service and electric transmission functions. Dominion Deliverys operating results reflect the impact of weather on demand for electricity and natural gas and customer growth as influenced by overall economic conditions. Dominion Deliverys electric and gas businesses are subject to cost of service rate regulation; changes in prices of commodities consumed or delivered are generally recoverable in rates charged to customers. However, certain rates may be subject to price caps, limiting recovery of higher costs in certain circumstances. Dominion Delivery also includes Dominions interest in Dominion Fiber Ventures LLC (DFV), a telecommunications joint venture. See Note 30 for a discussion of Dominions consolidation of DFV beginning in February 2003. Effective January 1, 2003, Dominions electric transmission operations became a part of the Dominion Energy operating segment. Dominion Exploration & Production manages Dominions onshore and offshore gas and oil exploration, development and production operations. They are located in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deep water areas of the Gulf of Mexico, and Western Canada. Dominion Exploration & Productions operating results reflect successful discovery of and production from natural gas and oil reserves, as well as changes in prices of natural gas and oil. Dominion Exploration & Productions commodity risk is managed by the Dominion Energy Clearinghouse (the Clearinghouse) by using derivative instruments, such as forwards, swaps, and options. In addition, Dominion also presents its corporate functions, financial services and other operations as an operating segment. For more information on Dominions segments, see Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Dominion has identified the following accounting policies that, as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Accounting for risk management and energy trading contracts at fair value Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. Accounting requirements for derivatives and hedging activities are complex; interpretation of these requirements by standard setting bodies is ongoing. All derivatives, other than specific exceptions, are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, beginning in 2001. Energy trading contracts are also reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Changes in fair value, except those related to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, are generally included in the determination of Dominions net income at each financial reporting date until the contracts are ultimately settled. The measurement of fair value is based on actively quoted market prices, if available. In their absence, Dominion seeks indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is 23 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued not available, measurement involves judgment and estimates. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies deemed appropriate by Dominion management. For individual contracts, the use of different assumptions could have a material effect on the contracts estimated fair value. In addition, for hedges of forecasted transactions, Dominion must estimate the expected future cash flows of the forecasted transactions, as well as evaluate the probability of occurrence and timing of such transactions. Changes in conditions or the occurrence of unforeseen events could affect the timing of recognition of changes in fair value of certain hedging derivatives. See Selected Information Energy Trading Activities and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in MD&A and Notes 2, 4 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for gas and oil operations Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the SEC. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depreciated using a unit of production method. The depreciable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved gas and oil reserves, as well as dismantlement and abandonment costs, net of projected salvage values. The calculations under this accounting method are dependent on engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities and estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves. Proved reserves, and the cash flows related to these reserves, are estimated based on a combination of historical data and estimates of future activity. Actual reserve quantities and development expenditures may differ from the forecasted amounts. In addition, Dominion has significant investments in unproved properties, which are initially excluded from the depreciable base. Until the properties are evaluated, a ratable portion of the capitalized costs is periodically reclassified to the depreciable base, determined on a property by property basis, over terms of underlying leases. Once a property has been evaluated, any remaining capitalized costs are then transferred to the depreciable base. Capitalized costs in the depreciable base are subject to a ceiling test prescribed by the SEC. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved gas and oil reserves. Dominion performs the test quarterly, on a country by country basis, and would recognize asset impairments to the extent that total capitalized costs exceed the ceiling. Any impairment of excess gas and oil property costs over the ceiling is charged to operations. Given the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, it is possible that Dominions estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves could change in the near term. If natural gas or oil prices decline, even if for only a short period, or if Dominion revises its estimated proved reserves downward, recognition of natural gas and oil property impairments could occur in the future. See Notes 2 and 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Use of estimates in impairment testing Dominion is required to test at least annually its goodwill for potential impairment. As part of that test, Dominion is required to determine the fair value of its reporting units. Dominion produces this estimate by using discounted cash flow analyses and other valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings for peer group companies, as well as analyses of recent business combinations involving peer group companies. These calculations are dependent on many subjective factors, including the selection of appropriate discount and growth rates, the selection of peer group companies and recent transactions and managements estimate of future cash flows. The cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on the best information available at the time the estimates are made. However, estimates of future cash flows are highly uncertain by nature and may vary significantly from actual results. Dominion performed the transitional impairment test upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, as of January 1, 2002 and its annual test later in the year. The fair value of each of Dominions reporting units exceeded the related carrying amounts, resulting in no impairment. The underlying assumptions and estimates involved in preparing these fair value calculations could change significantly from period to period. If Dominions estimates of the fair value of its reporting units are substantially reduced, impairment may be indicated and Dominion would be required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test. That step measures the amount of impairment, if any, and requires the further use of fair value estimates. A goodwill impairment charge would result in a charge to earnings, with a corresponding reduction of the carrying amount of goodwill on the balance sheet. Dominion had $4.3 billion and $4.2 billion of goodwill at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Notes 2 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of goodwill impairment tests. Impairment testing for long lived assets and intangible assets with definite lives is required when circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. In performing the impairment test, Dominion would estimate the future cash flows associated with individual assets or groups of assets. Impairment results when the undiscounted estimated future cash flows are less than the related assets carrying amount. If 24 Table of Contents impaired, the asset must be written down to its fair value, which is generally calculated using the present value of its expected future net cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on the best information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are by nature highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. Accounting for retained interests from securitizations Securitizations involve selling loans to qualifying unconsolidated trusts in exchange for cash and retained interests. Retained interests may include unsecured debt of the trust or retained interests in the transferred loans. Dominion holds retained interests from mortgage and commercial loans securitized in prior years and classifies them as available for sale investments, carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Quarterly, Dominion evaluates the key assumptions relating to valuing the retained interests. Those key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, credit losses, forward yield curves and discount rates. Using a published forward yield curve, cash flows, net of adjustments for expected credit losses and loan prepayments, are discounted to determine the estimated fair value of the retained interests. Loan prepayments speeds and credit loss assumptions are based on actual historical results and future estimates. The discount rate is risk adjusted and is periodically compared to industry averages and recent or similar transactions for reasonableness. Changes in interest rates will result in a change in the forward yield curve and can result in a change in the assumed amount of loan prepayments. Changes in general economic conditions may impact actual credit losses, thus impacting the credit loss assumption used in Dominions quarterly evaluation. Income from the residual interests is reported as other revenue. As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during 2002, 2001 and 2000, Dominion made changes to these key assumptions, resulting in impairment charges for those years. See also Notes 2 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of securitizations and retained interests and a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions. Accounting for regulated operations Methods of allocating costs to accounting periods for operations subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation may differ from accounting methods generally applied by nonregulated companies. When the timing of cost recovery prescribed by regulatory authorities differs from the timing of expense recognition used for accounting purposes, Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements may recognize a regulatory asset for expenditures that otherwise would be expensed. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenue associated with certain costs that will be recovered from customers through rates. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future reductions in revenue associated with expected customer credits through rates. Management makes assumptions regarding the probability of regulatory asset recovery through future rates approved by applicable regulatory authorities. The expectations of future recovery are generally based upon historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of regulatory assets is determined to be less than probable, they would be expensed in the period such assessment is made. See Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Dominions discussion of its results of operations includes a tabular summary of contributions by its operating segments to net income and diluted earnings per share, an overview of 2002 and 2001 results of operations for consolidated Dominion, as well as a more detailed discussion of operating segment results of operations. 2002 2001 2000 (millions, except per share amounts) Net Income EPS Net Income EPS Net Income EPS Dominion Energy $ 770 $ 2.72 $ 723 $ 2.86 $ 489 $ 2.07 Dominion Delivery 455 1.61 366 1.45 339 1.43 Dominion E&P 380 1.34 320 1.27 255 1.08 Net income contribution operating segments 1,605 5.67 1,409 5.58 1,083 4.58 Corporate and Other (243 ) (0.85 ) (865 ) (3.43 ) (647 ) (2.73 ) Total Consolidated Dominion $ 1,362 $ 4.82 $ 544 $ 2.15 $ 436 $ 1.85 Consolidated operating revenue $ 10,218 $ 10,558 $ 9,246 Consolidated operating expense $ 7,333 $ 8,773 $ 7,731 Overview of Consolidated Operating Results 2002 Dominion earned $4.82 per diluted share on net income of $1.36 billion in 2002, an increase of $818 million and $2.67 per diluted share over 2001. The increase includes higher net income contributions by all operating segments, partially offset by approximately $0.57 of share dilution, reflecting a substantial increase in the number of average common shares outstanding during 2002. In addition, Dominion recognized fewer specific charges in 2002, as described in Corporate and Other segment results below. Regulated electric sales and non regulated retail energy sales increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and growth in customer base. Nonregulated electric sales by Dominions merchant generation fleet declined primarily due to lower electricity prices, partially offset by sales from recently acquired and constructed assets. Sales of gas and oil production increased as a result of higher production levels, reflecting Dominions ongoing drilling programs, the operations of Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. (Louis Dreyfus), partially offset by natural production declines and by lower average realized prices for gas and oil, including the 25 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued effects of hedging. Overall, net revenue from Dominions energy trading operations decreased for 2002. Gas trading activities contributed less for 2002, reflecting the effects of net unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower trading margins, partially offset by higher overall trading volumes. Electric trading activities increased for 2002, reflecting favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher trading margins. Energy trading operations are discussed in more detail as part of the Dominion Energy segment results of operations. In addition to the contributions by its operating segments, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization resulted in a $95 million increase in net income. During 2002, Dominion did not recognize any significant specific charges, as compared to 2001 when those charges totaled $797 million, as described in the Corporate and Other segment results. Interest and related charges decreased $52 million, reflecting lower overall interest rates on outstanding debt, partially offset by interest on new issues of debt and distributions on trust preferred securities issued in late 2001 and during 2002. Dominions effective income tax rate decreased, reflecting the net $33 million effect of including certain subsidiaries in Dominions consolidated state income tax returns. In addition, the effective tax rate decreased for foreign earnings, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization for book purposes and other factors. Overview of Consolidated Operating Results 2001 Dominion earned $2.15 per diluted share on net income of $544 million in 2001, an increase of $108 million and $0.30 per diluted share over 2000. The increase includes higher net income contributions by all operating segments, partially offset by a higher number of specific charges in 2001 as compared to 2000, as discussed in Corporate and Other segment results below. The increase in results for Dominions operating segments for 2001 reflect the operations of businesses acquired during the year. Dominion acquired Millstone Power Station (Millstone) on March 31, 2001. Its operations contributed significantly to the increase in nonregulated electric sales. Regulated gas sales, nonregulated gas sales and gas and oil production revenue increased as Consolidated Natural Gas Companys (CNG) operations were included for all of 2001. In addition, 2001 gas and oil production results reflected the inclusion of Louis Dreyfus for two months as well as higher realized prices for gas. Dominions energy trading operations, recorded as nonregulated gas and electric sales, net of cost of sales, also contributed to the overall operating revenue increase. The increase in net income contribution by the segments operations was partially offset by a higher level of specific charges in 2001, as compared to 2000, as described in the discussion of the Corporate and Other segment results. Such charges for 2001 and 2000 totaled $797 million and $579 million, respectively. Interest expense and related charges decreased $27 million, reflecting lower overall interest rates on outstanding debt. Dominions effective income tax rate increased and its other taxes decreased in 2001 because its utility operations in Virginia became subject to state income taxes in lieu of gross receipts taxes effective January 2001. In addition, Dominion recognized higher effective rates for foreign earnings and higher pretax income in relation to non conventional fuel tax credits realized. Dominion Energy (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 5,940 $ 6,144 $ 4,894 Operating expenses 4,520 4,749 3,939 Net income contribution 770 723 489 Earnings per share contribution $ 2.72 $ 2.86 $ 2.07 Electricity supplied* (million mwhrs) 101 95 83 Gas transmission throughput (bcf) 597 553 567 * Amounts presented are for electricity supplied by utility and merchant generation operations. Operating Results 2002 Dominion Energy contributed $2.72 per diluted share on net income of $770 million for 2002, a net income increase of $47 million and an earnings per share decrease of $0.14 over 2001. Net income for 2002 reflected lower operating revenue ($204 million), operating expenses ($229 million) and other income ($27 million). Interest expense and income taxes, which are discussed on a consolidated basis, decreased $50 million over 2001. The earnings per share decrease reflected share dilution. Regulated electric sales revenue increased $179 million. Favorable weather conditions, reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days, as well as customer growth, are estimated to have contributed $133 million and $41 million, respectively. Fuel rate recoveries increased approximately $65 million for 2002. These recoveries are generally offset by increases in electric fuel expense and do not materially affect income. Partially offsetting these increases was a net decrease of $60 million due to other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased $9 million. Sales revenue from Dominions merchant generation fleet decreased $21 million, reflecting a $201 million decline due to lower prices partially offset by sales from assets acquired and constructed in 2002 and the inclusion of Millstone operations for all of 2002. Revenue from the wholesale marketing of utility generation decreased $74 million. Due to the higher 26 Table of Contents demand of utility service territory customers during 2002, less production from utility plant generation was available for profitable sale in the wholesale market. Revenue from retail energy sales increased $71 million, reflecting primarily customer growth over the prior year. Net revenue from Dominions electric trading activities increased $33 million, reflecting the effect of favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher trading margins. Nonregulated gas sales revenue decreased $351 million. The decrease included a $239 million decrease in sales by Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations, reflecting to a large extent declining prices. Revenue associated with gas trading operations, net of related cost of sales, decreased $112 million. The decrease included $70 million of realized and unrealized losses on the economic hedges of natural gas production by the Dominion Exploration & Production segment. As described below under Selected Information Energy Trading Activities, sales of natural gas by the Dominion Exploration & Production segment at market prices offset these financial losses, resulting in a range of prices contemplated by Dominions overall risk management strategy. The remaining $42 million decrease was due to unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower overall trading margins. Those losses were partially offset by contributions from higher trading volumes in gas and oil markets. Gas transportation and storage revenue decreased $44 million, primarily reflecting lower rates. Electric fuel and energy purchases expense increased $94 million which included an increase of $66 million associated with Dominions energy marketing operations that are not subject to cost based rate regulation and an increase of $28 million associated with utility operations. Substantially all of the increase associated with non regulated energy marketing operations related to higher volumes purchased during the year. For utility operations, energy costs increased $66 million for purchases subject to rate recovery, partially offset by a $38 million decrease in fuel expenses associated with lower wholesale marketing of utility plant generation. Purchased gas expense decreased $245 million associated with Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations. This decrease reflected approximately $162 million associated with declining prices and $83 million associated with lower purchased volumes. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases decreased $64 million, primarily reflecting comparably lower levels of rate recoveries of certain costs of transmission operations in the current year period. The difference between actual expenses and amounts recovered in the period are deferred pending future rate adjustments. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased $14 million, primarily reflecting an $18 million decrease in outage costs due to fewer generation unit outages in the current year. Depreciation expense decreased $11 million, reflecting decreases in depreciation associated with changes in the estimated useful lives of certain electric generation property, partially offset by increased depreciation associated with State Line and Millstone operations. Other income decreased $27 million, including a $14 million decrease in net realized investment gains in the Millstone decommissioning trusts. In addition, the decrease included a $12 million decline in equity income from Elwood Energy, an equity method investment, reflecting higher interest expense due to the issuance of additional debt by that company in 2002. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Energy contributed $2.86 per diluted share on net income of $723 million for 2001, an increase of $234 million and $0.79 per diluted share over 2000 results. The increase in net income reflected a full year of CNG operations in 2001, the acquisition of Millstone and reductions in certain operating expenses. Operating revenue increased $1.3 billion to $6.1 billion in 2001, as compared to 2000 reflecting the acquisition of Millstone and a full year of CNG operations for 2001. Regulated electric sales for 2001 reflected customer growth and comparatively higher fuel rates; however, these increases were largely offset by comparatively mild weather. Millstone operations largely contributed to the increase in non regulated electric sales. Non regulated gas sales and gas transportation and storage revenue increased, reflecting a full year of CNG operations and increased transportation rates. The results of Dominions trading and marketing operations contributed to the overall increase in operating revenue. Operating expenses increased $810 million to $4.7 billion for 2001, as compared to 2000. Higher commodity prices contributed to increased electric fuel and energy purchases and purchased gas. In addition, purchased gas increased, reflecting CNG operations for the entirety of 2001. Depreciation increased overall due to the inclusion of Millstone. This increase was partially offset by an extension of the estimated useful lives of Dominions nuclear plants in connection with the expected relicensing of those plants. This change in estimate resulted in a $78 million decrease in depreciation expense. Purchased capacity decreased as Dominion terminated certain contracts in early 2001. Other operations and maintenance increased due to the inclusion of Millstone operations and scheduled outages at both nuclear and fossil plants. 27 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Selected Information Energy Trading Activities As previously described, Dominion Energy manages Dominions energy trading, hedging and arbitrage activities through the Clearinghouse. Dominion believes these operations complement its integrated energy businesses and facilitate its risk management activities. As part of these operations, the Clearinghouse enters into contracts for purchases and sales of energy related commodities, including natural gas, electricity and oil. Settlement of a contract may require physical delivery of the underlying commodity or, in some cases, an exchange of cash. These contracts are classified as energy trading contracts for financial accounting purposes. The contracts are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as components of current and non current derivative and energy trading assets and liabilities. Gains and losses from energy trading contracts, including both realized and unrealized amounts, are reported net in the Consolidated Statements of Income as revenue. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, Dominion reports energy trading contracts in its financial statements at fair value. A discussion of how Dominion determines fair value for its energy trading contracts, can be found in Critical Accounting Policies presented earlier in MD&A. The Clearinghouse enters into contracts with the objective of benefiting from changes in the prices of energy commodities. Clearinghouse management continually monitors its contract positions, considering location and timing of delivery or settlement for each energy commodity in relation to market price activity, seeking arbitrage opportunities. For example, after entering into a contract to purchase a commodity, the Clearinghouse typically enters into a sales contract, or a combination of sales contracts, with quantities and delivery or settlement terms that are identical or very similar to those of the purchase contract. When the purchase and sales contracts are settled either by physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by net cash settlement, the Clearinghouse may receive a net cash margin (a realized gain), or sometimes will pay a net cash margin (a realized loss). Until the contracts are settled, however, Dominion must record the changes in the fair value of both contracts. These changes in fair value represent unrealized gains and losses. To the extent purchase and sales contracts with identical or similar terms are held by the Clearinghouse, the changes in their fair values will generally offset one another. Although the Clearinghouse may hold purchase or sales contracts for delivery of commodities at particular locations and times that have not been offset, such exposures are monitored and actively managed on a daily basis. Dominions risk management policies and procedures are designed to limit its exposure to commodity price changes. Additional discussion can be found in Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2, 15 and 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Dominions implementation of new accounting requirements effective January 1, 2003 to reflect the decision of the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) in Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Contracts under Issue No. 98 10. As a result, some energy related contracts are no longer subject to fair value accounting. During 2002, the Clearinghouse also held derivative financial contracts to manage the price risk of certain anticipated sales of Dominion Exploration & Productions 2002 and 2003 natural gas production (economic hedges). Dominion did not designate these derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes and, as a result, any change in the fair value of these derivatives is included in earnings. During 2002, Dominion Energy recognized a loss of $48 million related to the 2002 economic hedges, representing $43 million from contract settlements and $5 million for the reversal of unrealized gains that existed at December 31, 2001. In addition, Dominion Energy recognized $22 million of unrealized losses in 2002 related to the change in the fair value of the 2003 economic hedges. As anticipated, Dominion Exploration & Production sold sufficient volumes of natural gas in 2002 at market prices, which, when combined with the settlement of the 2002 economic hedges, resulted in a range of prices for those sales contemplated by the risk management strategy. Similarly, Dominion expects the combination of anticipated gas sales and the 2003 economic hedges to result in a range of prices for those sales as contemplated by this risk management strategy in 2003. A summary of the changes in the unrealized gains and losses in Dominions energy trading contracts, including the economic hedges described above, during 2002 follows: (millions) Energy Trading Contracts Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2001 $ 165 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period (40 ) Net unrealized gain at inception of contracts initiated during the period 39 Changes in valuation techniques 6 Other changes in fair value Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2002 $ 170 The balance of net unrealized gains and losses in Dominions energy trading contracts, including the economic hedges discussed above, at December 31, 2002 is summarized 28 Table of Contents in the following table based on the approach used to determine fair value and the contract settlement or delivery dates: (millions) Maturity Based on Contract Settlement or Delivery Date(s) Source of Fair Value Less Than 1 Year 1 2 Years 2 3 Years 3 5 Years In Excess of 5 Years Total Actively quoted(1) $ 8 $ 15 $ 13 $ 36 Other external sources(2) 19 13 $ 13 $ 8 53 Models and other valuation techniques(3) 19 15 14 10 23 81 Total $ 27 $ 49 $ 40 $ 23 $ 31 $ 170 (1) Exchange traded and over the counter contracts. (2) Values based on prices from over the counter broker activity and industry services and, where applicable, conventional option pricing models. (3) Values based on Dominions estimate of future commodity prices when information from external sources is not available and use of internally developed models, reflecting option pricing theory, discounted cash flow concepts, etc. Dominion Delivery (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 2,552 $ 2,963 $ 2,826 Operating expenses 1,653 2,202 2,123 Net income contribution 455 366 339 Earnings per share contribution $ 1.61 $ 1.45 $ 1.43 Electricity delivered (million mwhrs) 75 72 74 Gas throughput (mmcf) 364 357 356 Operating Results 2002 Dominion Delivery contributed $1.61 per diluted share on net income of $455 million for 2002, an increase of $89 million and $0.16 per diluted share over 2001. Net income for 2002 reflected lower operating revenue ($411 million), operating expenses ($549 million) and other income ($37 million). Changes in interest and income taxes, which are discussed on a consolidated basis, were not significant. Regulated electric sales revenue increased $58 million. Favorable weather conditions, reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days, as well as customer growth, are estimated to have contributed $62 million and $19 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was a net decrease of $23 million due to other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Regulated gas sales revenue decreased $533 million, reflecting $550 million for lower gas cost recoveries attributable to lower prices and customer migration, partially offset by the impact of slightly colder weather and other factors. The decrease was substantially offset by a $489 million decrease in purchased gas expense, reflecting the matching of purchased gas costs and gas cost recoveries in rates, and increased gas transportation service revenue. Gas transportation and storage revenue increased $36 million, primarily reflecting the shift of customer status from regulated gas sales to gas transportation service in connection with the switch by distribution customers to other natural gas suppliers. The migration of customers does not generally affect net income, as the recognition of the cost of gas delivered for regulated gas sales customers is matched against rate recoveries. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased $50 million, primarily reflecting lower general and administrative expenses. Depreciation decreased $11 million as a result of changes in the estimated useful lives of electric distribution assets. Other income decreased $37 million, reflecting to a large extent a $27 million increase in equity losses on Dominions telecommunications joint venture. The increased losses reflected lower revenue and increased operating expenses resulting from the expansion into several new markets in 2002. See Notes 30 and 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Delivery contributed $1.45 per diluted share on net income of $366 million for 2001, an increase of $27 million and $0.02 per diluted share over 2000 results. The increase in net income reflects slightly higher gas throughput and slightly lower volumes of electricity delivered, as well as overall higher gas and electric rates. Operating revenue increased $137 million to $3.0 billion for 2001, reflecting a full year of CNG operations for 2001. This is reflected in higher regulated gas sales and gas transportation and storage revenue as a result of higher overall throughput and rates. Regulated electric sales for 2001 reflect customer growth and comparatively higher fuel rates, partially offset by the effect of comparatively milder weather. Operating expenses increased $79 million to $2.2 billion for 2001. Higher prices for commodities delivered or consumed contributed to increased purchased gas expense. In addition, purchased gas increased, as 2000 amounts only included 11 months of CNG operations. 29 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Dominion Exploration & Production (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenue $ 1,719 $ 1,460 $ 1,330 Operating expenses 1,111 934 920 Net income contribution 380 320 255 Earnings per share contribution $ 1.34 $ 1.27 $ 1.08 Gas production (bcf) 385 283 258 Oil production (million bbls) 10 7 8 Average realized prices with hedging results:(1) Gas (per mcf) $ 3.40 $ 3.80 $ 3.07 Oil (per bbl) 23.28 23.42 22.26 Average prices without hedging results: Gas (per mcf) 3.03 3.87 3.70 Oil (per bbl) $ 24.44 $ 23.53 $ 23.98 (1) Average realized prices with hedging results do not include the financial losses incurred on the economic hedges which are reported in and discussed as part of the operating results of the Dominion Energy segment. Operating Results 2002 Dominion Exploration & Production contributed $1.34 per diluted share on net income of $380 million, an increase of $60 million and $0.07 per diluted share over 2001. Operating revenue increased $259 million to $1.7 billion for 2002, reflecting higher overall production as a result of the full year operations of Louis Dreyfus and Dominions ongoing drilling programs, partially offset by natural production declines. Average realized gas and oil prices, including the effects of hedging, decreased for the comparative years. Operating expenses increased $177 million to $1.1 billion for 2002, and reflect primarily the impact of including Louis Dreyfus operations in 2002. The increase includes an increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $138 million in connection with the higher levels of production noted above, partially offset by lower depletion rates due primarily to the inclusion of properties from the Louis Dreyfus acquisition. Operating Results 2001 Dominion Exploration & Production contributed $1.27 per diluted share on net income of $320 million, an increase of $65 million and $0.19 per diluted share, as compared to 2000 results. Operating revenue increased $130 million to $1.5 billion for 2001, reflecting a full year of CNG operations for 2001, two months of Louis Dreyfus operations and higher average realized gas and oil prices. The production increases reflect the addition of Louis Dreyfus operations in the fourth quarter of 2001, offset somewhat by natural declines at certain Dominion gas and oil production properties. Operating expenses increased $14 million to $934 million for 2001, as compared to 2000, and include the acquisition of Louis Dreyfus in the fourth quarter of 2001, as well as higher operations and maintenance expenses associated with service industry and contractor costs. Purchases of gas and oil for brokered sales decreased in 2001. Corporate and Other (millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Net loss $ (243 ) $ (865 ) $ (647 ) Earnings per share impact $ (0.85 ) $ (3.43 ) $ (2.73 ) Operating Results 2002 The net loss associated with corporate and other operations for 2002 was $243 million and $(0.85) per diluted share, a decrease of $622 million and $2.58 per diluted share over 2001. The decrease in net loss reflected higher operating expenses for 2001 as a result of specific charges described in Operating Results 2001 below. In addition, the decreased net loss for 2002 included an $88 million decrease in operating expenses, due to the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. Operating Results 2001 The net loss associated with corporate and other operations for 2001 was $865 million and $(3.43) per diluted share, an increase of $218 million and $0.70 per diluted share over 2000. These results reflect comparatively higher operating expenses for 2001 that included the following specific items, which are discussed in Notes 6, 8, 9, 15 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements: n a $105 million charge for restructuring activities, including employee severance and termination benefits and costs associated with the termination of leases; n a $281 million charge, reported in other operations and maintenance expense, for the impairment of various DCI investments; n a $151 million charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron; n a $220 million charge, reported in operations and maintenance expense, related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts; and n a $40 million loss on the sale of Saxon Capital, reported in other operations and maintenance expense. Charges in 2000 included restructuring and acquisition related charges of $460 million and DCI impairments of $119 million. These charges were partially offset by the cumulative effect of an accounting change of $21 million. These items are discussed in Notes 3, 8 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Dominion and its subsidiaries depend on both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided by operating activities are generally satisfied with proceeds from short term borrowings. Long term cash needs are met through sales of securities and additional long term debt financing. 30 Table of Contents Internal Sources of Liquidity As presented on Dominions Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, net cash flows from operating activities were $2.4 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Dominions management believes that its operations provide a stable source of cash flow sufficient to contribute to planned levels of capital expenditures and maintain current shareholder dividend levels. As noted above, Dominion uses a combination of debt and equity securities to fund capital requirements not covered by the timing or amounts of operating cash flows. As discussed under Credit Ratings and Cash Requirements for Planned Capital Expenditures below, Dominion is taking steps to improve its financial position in response to current credit rating requirements. As a result of these measures, Dominion may choose to postpone or cancel certain planned capital expenditures, to the extent they are not fully covered by operating cash flows. Dominion would do this in order to mitigate the need for future debt financings, beyond those needed to cover normal maturities and redemptions. Dominions operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact cash flows from operations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: n unusual weather and its effect on energy sales to customers and energy commodity prices; n extreme weather events that could disrupt offshore gas and oil production or cause catastrophic damage to Dominions electric distribution and transmission systems; n exposure to unanticipated changes in prices for energy commodities purchased or sold, including the effect on derivative instruments that may require the use of funds to post margin deposits with counterparties; n effectiveness of Dominions risk management activities and underlying assessment of market conditions and related factors, including energy commodity prices, basis, liquidity, volatility, counterparty credit risk, availability of generation and transmission capacity, currency exchange rates and interest rates; n the cost of replacement electric energy in the event of longer than expected or unscheduled generation outages; n contractual or regulatory restrictions on transfers of funds among Dominion and its subsidiaries; and n timeliness of recovery for costs subject to cost of service utility rate regulation. External Sources of Liquidity Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and CNG (collectively the Dominion Companies) rely on bank and capital markets as a significant source of funding for capital requirements not satisfied by cash provided by the companies operations. As discussed further in the Credit Ratings section below, the Dominion Companies ability to borrow funds or issue securities and the return demanded by investors are affected by the issuing companys credit ratings. In addition, the raising of external capital is subject to certain regulatory approvals, including the SEC and, in the case of Virginia Power, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission). During 2002, the Dominion Companies issued long term debt (net of exchanged debt), trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock totaling approximately $4.85 billion. The proceeds were used primarily to repay other debt and to finance capital expenditures. Credit Facilities and Short Term Debt The Dominion Companies use short term debt, primarily commercial paper, to fund working capital requirements and as bridge financing for acquisitions. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly during the course of the year, depending upon the timing and amount of cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. The commercial paper programs are supported by the credit facilities discussed below. At December 31, 2002, the Dominion Companies had the following short term debt outstanding and capacity available under credit facilities: (millions) Facility Limit Outstanding Commercial Paper Outstanding Letters of Credit Facility Capacity Remaining 364 day revolving joint credit facility $ 1,250 Three year revolving joint credit facility 750 Total joint credit facilities(1) 2,000 $ 1,193 $ 106 $ 701 CNG credit facility(2) 500 500 Cove Point bridge facility(3) 250 250 Totals $ 2,750 $ 1,193 $ 606 $ 951 (1) The joint credit facilities support borrowings by the Dominion Companies. The 364 day revolving credit facility terminates in May 2003 and the three year revolving credit facility terminates in May 2005. Dominion expects to renew the 364 day revolving credit facility prior to its maturity. (2) This credit facility is used to support the issuance of letters of credit and commercial paper by CNG to fund collateral requirements under its gas and oil hedging program. The credit facility terminates in August 2003. (3) Dominion financed its acquisition of Cove Point with commercial paper supported by this facility. The facility terminated on March 5, 2003 and was not renewed. 31 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Long Term Debt During 2002, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries issued the following long term debt: Type Principal Rate Maturity Issuing Company (millions) Medium termnotes $ 250 3.875 % 2004 Dominion Resources Equity linked debt securities 330 5.75 % 2008 Dominion Resources Senior notes 1,620 5.125 6.75 % % 2009 2032 Dominion Resources Senior notes 650 5.375 % 2007 Virginia Power Medium term notes(1) 83 5.72 % 2005 Dominion Canada Finance Company Bankers acceptances(1) 13 3.58 % 2003 Dominion Exploration Canada Ltd. Total long term debt issued 2,946 Less direct exchanges(2) (637) Total long term debt issued, excluding direct exchanges $ 2,309 (1) Securities are denominated in Canadian dollars but presented here in US dollars, based on exchange rates as of date of issuance. (2) During 2002, Virginia Power redeemed $117 million of 6.75 percent mortgage bonds due 2007 in a direct exchange for 5.375 percent senior notes due 2007. Also during 2002, Dominion redeemed $200 million of 7.40 percent remarketable senior notes and $250 million variable rate remarketable senior notes, both due 2012, in a direct exchange for $520 million 5.70 percent senior notes due 2012. That principal amount was determined by an exchange ratio based on the fair value of the remarketable senior notes. The direct exchanges are discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2002, Dominion issued $300 million of 5.125 percent senior notes due 2009 and $300 million of 6.75 percent senior notes due 2032. Dominion placed $500 million of proceeds in escrow to be used solely to repay a portion of certain Dominion senior notes maturing in January 2003. The remaining principal amount of the maturing senior notes was repaid through the issuance of additional commercial paper in January 2003. In February 2003, Dominion Resources issued $300 million of 2.80 percent senior notes due 2005 and $400 million of 4.125 percent senior notes due 2008. Also in February 2003, Dominion Resources issued $500 million of variable rate senior notes due 2013, in a private placement of the securities. In February 2003, Virginia Power issued $400 million of 4.75 percent senior notes due 2013. In March 2003, Dominion issued $300 million of 5.0 percent senior notes due 2013 and $300 million of 6.30 percent senior notes due 2033. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used primarily for Dominions tender offering for Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC senior notes, debt maturities, commercial paper and other general corporate purposes. The acquisition of Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC senior notes is discussed in MD&A under Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2002, Dominion and its subsidiaries repaid $1.6 billion of long term debt securities. Trust Preferred Securities During 2002, Virginia Power, through a capital trust subsidiary, issued $400 million of 7.375 percent trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities must be redeemed when the trusts sole assets, the junior subordinated notes due 2042 issued by Virginia Power, are repaid. Virginia Power used the net proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities primarily to redeem its variable rate preferred stock as discussed under Preferred Stock below for $250 million and $135 million of 8.05 percent trust preferred securities of Virginia Power Capital Trust I. Trust preferred securities are discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Preferred Stock During 2002, Virginia Power issued 1,250 units consisting of 1,000 shares per unit of cumulative preferred stock for $125 million. Proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The preferred stock has a dividend rate of 5.50 percent until the end of the initial dividend period on December 20, 2007. The dividend rate for subsequent periods will be determined according to periodic auctions. The preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $100 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. During 2002, Virginia Power used the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to redeem its variable rate preferred stock October 1988 Series, June 1989 Series, September 1992A Series, and September 1992B Series for $250 million. Preferred stock is discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Common Stock During 2002, Dominion issued 44 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $2.0 billion. Approximately 38 million shares and proceeds of $1.7 billion resulted from two public offerings. Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, principally repayment of debt. The remainder of the shares issued and proceeds received during 2002 occurred through Dominion Direct&reg; (a dividend reinvestment and open enrollment direct stock purchase plan), employee savings plans and the exercise of employee stock options. During 2002, Dominion also reacquired approximately one million shares of its common stock for $66 million primarily with proceeds received from the exercise of employee stock options. Amounts Available under Shelf Registrations At March 6, 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power, and CNG had approximately $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.5 billion, respectively, of available capacity under currently 32 Table of Contents effective shelf registrations. Securities that may be issued under these shelf registrations, depending upon the registrant, include senior notes (including medium term notes), subordinated notes, first and refunding mortgage bonds, trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock. Credit Ratings Credit ratings are intended to provide banks and capital market participants with a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Management believes that the current credit ratings of the Dominion Companies provide sufficient access to the capital markets. However, disruptions in the bank and capital markets not specifically related to Dominion may affect the Dominion Companies ability to access these funding sources or cause an increase in the return required by investors. Both quantitative (financial strength) and qualitative (business or operating characteristics) factors are considered by the credit rating agencies in establishing an individual companys credit rating. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently. The credit ratings for the Dominion Companies are most affected by each companys financial profile, mix of regulated and non regulated businesses and respective cash flows, changes in methodologies used by the rating agencies and event risk, if applicable, such as major acquisitions. Credit ratings for the Dominion Companies as of March 1, 2003 follow: Standard & Poors Moodys Dominion Resources, Inc. Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ Baa1 Preferred securities of subsidiary trusts BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 Virginia Power Mortgage bonds A A2 Senior unsecured (including tax exempt) debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of subsidiary trust BBB Baa1 Preferred stock BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 1 CNG Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of subsidiary trust BBB Baa1 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 These credit ratings reflect Standard & Poors downgrade of its credit ratings for Virginia Powers debt, preferred securities of subsidiary trusts, preferred stock and commercial paper in October 2002. Based on its conclusions about regulatory insulation in Virginia being no better than other states, Standard & Poors concluded that Virginia Powers ratings should be no more than one notch above the ratings of its parent, Dominion Resources, Inc. Standard & Poors noted that Virginia Powers downgrade is not reflective of any diminished credit protection measures, as Virginia Powers credit protection measures on a stand alone basis remain strong. As of March 1, 2003, Moodys maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of Dominion Resources, Inc. and CNG. Generally, a downgrade in an individual companys credit rating would not restrict its ability to raise short term and long term financing so long as its credit rating remains investment grade, but it would increase the cost of borrowing. Dominion has been working closely with both Standard & Poors and Moodys with the objective of maintaining its current credit ratings. Recent steps to improve the agencies view of Dominions financial position include the reduction of planned capital spending and related borrowings, as discussed below, and the issuance of $2.0 billion of common stock during 2002. As discussed in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results, in order to maintain its current ratings, Dominion may find it necessary to take further steps or change its business plans, and such changes may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. Debt Covenants As part of borrowing funds and issuing debt (both short term and long term) or preferred securities, the Dominion Companies must enter enabling agreements. These agreements contain covenants that, in the event of default, could result in the acceleration of principal and interest payments; restrictions on distributions related to its capital stock, including dividends, redemptions, repurchases, liquidation payments or guarantee payments; and in some cases, the termination of credit commitments unless a waiver of such requirements is agreed to by the lenders/security holders. These provisions are customary, with each agreement specifying which covenants apply. These provisions are not necessarily unique to the Dominion Companies. Some of the typical covenants include: n the timely payment of principal and interest; n information requirements, including submittal of financial reports filed with the SEC to lenders; n keeping books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; n payment of taxes, maintaining insurance; n performance obligations, audits/inspections, continuation of the basic nature of business, restrictions on certain matters related to merger or consolidation, restrictions on disposition of substantial assets; n financial covenants, such as a limit on total funded debt to total capitalization; 33 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued n compliance with collateral minimums or requirements related to mortgage bonds; and n limitations on liens. Dominion monitors the covenants on a regular basis in order to provide assurance that events of default will not occur. As of December 31, 2002, there were no events of default under the Dominion Companies covenants. Investing Activities During 2002, investing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $4.0 billion, reflecting the following: n $1.3 billion that included construction and expansion of generation facilities, including environmental upgrades, purchase of nuclear fuel, and construction and improvements of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets; n $1.5 billion for the purchase and development of gas and oil producing properties, drilling and equipment costs and undeveloped lease acquisitions; n the acquisitions of State Line for $185 million and Cove Point for $225 million; and n contributions to escrow of $500 million that were subsequently used to repay a portion of certain Dominion senior notes maturing in January 2003. Cash Requirements for Planned Capital Expenditures Cash requirements for Dominions planned capital expenditures during 2003, 2004 and 2005 are expected to total approximately $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. These expenditures include construction and expansion of generation facilities, environmental upgrades, construction improvements and expansion of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets, purchases of nuclear fuel and expenditures to develop natural gas and oil properties. Dominion expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from operations, and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Leasing Arrangements As of December 31, 2002, Dominion, through certain subsidiaries, has entered into agreements with special purpose entities (lessors) in order to finance and lease several new power generation projects, as well as its corporate headquarters and aircraft. As Dominion is considered the owner of the leased property for tax purposes, it is entitled to tax deductions for depreciation not recognized for financial accounting purposes. In addition, because the leases are structured to be operating leases for financial accounting purposes, the assets and related borrowings used to finance the construction of the assets are not included on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although this improves measures of leverage calculated using amounts reported in Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements, credit rating agencies view such amounts as debt obligations in evaluating Dominions credit profile. These leasing structures provide a desirable level of operational flexibility. Dominion has been appointed to act as the construction agent for the lessor and controls the design and construction of the facility. Also, Dominion has the option to purchase the facility at the expiration or termination of the lease and thus may benefit from any appreciation in the value of the facility. While Dominion is exposed to sharing in any loss that could occur if the project were terminated prior to completion or sold after being completed, such exposure is limited to a stated percentage of the realized loss, as discussed below. In addition, under the terms of each lease, the lessee generally retains operational control of the facility. At December 31, 2002, the lessors had an aggregate financing commitment from equity and debt investors of $2.2 billion. Of that amount, $1.6 billion had been used for total project costs. Total project costs at December 31, 2002 included approximately $288 million of costs advanced by Dominion to the lessor, that will be reimbursed by the lessor during the second quarter of 2003. Dominion, in its role as construction agent for the lessors, is responsible for completing construction by a specified date. In the event a project is terminated before completion, Dominion has the option either to purchase the project for 100 percent of project costs or terminate the project and make a payment to the lessor of approximately, but no more, than 89.9 percent of project costs. Upon completion of each individual project, Dominion has use of the project assets subject to an operating lease. Dominions lease payments to the lessors are sufficient to provide a return to the investors. At the end of each individual projects lease term, Dominion may renew the lease at negotiated amounts based on project costs and current market conditions, subject to investors approval; purchase the project at its original construction cost; or sell the project, on behalf of the lessors, to an independent third party. If the project is sold and the proceeds from the sale are insufficient to repay the investors, Dominion may be required to make a payment to the lessors up to an amount ranging from 81 percent to 85 percent of the project cost, depending on the individual project and applicable agreement. Dominion has guaranteed a portion of the obligations of its subsidiaries to the lessors during the construction and post construction periods. Neither the guarantees nor the underlying transaction documents contain any type of credit rating or stock price trigger events. In February 2003, pursuant to the terms of its lease agreement, Dominion purchased the electric generation facility under construction in Dresden, Ohio for $266 million. This amount was included in total project costs of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2002. Dominion expects to complete construction in 2005 at an estimated cost of $350 million. 34 Table of Contents Annual minimum lease payments under these leases for assets currently in use total approximately $38 million. Projects being developed under leasing arrangements are scheduled for completion in 2003 and 2004. Annual lease payments for these projects are estimated to be $7 million for 2003 and $79 million by 2005. The leases are discussed in Notes 4 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Securitizations of Mortgages and Loans As of December 31, 2002, Dominion held $448 million of retained interests from securitizations of mortgage and commercial loans completed in prior years. Dominion did not securitize or originate loans in 2002. Investors in the securitization trusts have no recourse to Dominions other assets for failure of debtors to repay principal and interest on the underlying loans when due. Therefore, Dominions exposure to any future losses from this activity is limited to its investment in retained interests. Securitizations are discussed in Accounting for retained interests from securitizations under Critical Accounting Policies and Notes 2, 9 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC As discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion has accounted for its 50 percent voting interest in Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC (DFV), a telecommunications joint venture, under the equity method. In connection with its formation, DFV issued $665 million of senior notes due March 2005. As DFV was not consolidated by Dominion, these notes were not reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2002. The DFV senior notes were secured in part by Dominion convertible preferred stock held in trust. Dominion was the beneficial owner of the trust and included it in the preparation of its Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to Dominions repurchase of substantially all of the outstanding DFV senior notes in February 2003, as described below, the preferred stock would have been subject to being remarketed in an amount sufficient to retire the notes at maturity or earlier if the credit ratings for Dominion Resources, Inc. senior unsecured debt were BBB or Baa3 during a period when the closing price of Dominions common stock was below $45.97 for ten consecutive trading days. If the remarketing of the preferred stock occurred, the convertible preferred stock would have been considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share of Dominions common stock or could have resulted in the issuance of additional shares of Dominion common stock, if converted. Related party transactions between Dominion and DFV included borrowings, payment of interest and the provision of support services by Dominion to DFV. These transactions are discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 23, 2003, Dominion and DFV made a tender and consent offering for the DFV senior notes. Under the terms of the offering, DFV sought the consent of the note holders to remove the stock price and credit downgrade trigger described above as well as certain other related modifications to the indenture. Dominion offered to purchase for cash all of the outstanding notes. The consent and tender offer was successful, resulting in the removal of the stock price and credit downgrade trigger and the purchase of $633 million of the outstanding notes by Dominion on February 21, 2003. Dominion paid a total of $664 million for the notes acquired, using proceeds from the sale of $700 million of senior notes in February 2003. As a result of this transaction, Dominion will consolidate the results of DFV in its financial statements beginning in February 2003. The DFV senior notes held by Dominion will be eliminated in consolidation. Furthermore, since Dominion holds substantially all of the DFV Senior Notes, it is unlikely that the remarketing of the Dominion convertible preferred stock held in trust, discussed above, would ever occur. After the transaction, $21 million of the DFV senior notes remain outstanding in the hands of the third parties. Dominion will recognize a pre tax charge of approximately $60 million on the effective extinguishment of the acquired notes in the first quarter of 2003. The charge will consist primarily of the premium paid to acquire the notes, the consent fee paid to the note holders and the write off of unamortized debt costs related to the original issuance of the DFV senior notes. The charge will be reported in the Corporate and Other segment. See Outlook for 2003. Contractual Obligations Presented below is a summary of Dominions contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002. These items are discussed in Notes 21, 22 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years (millions) Long term debt $ 14,205 $ 2,125 $ 2,259 $ 2,766 $ 7,055 Trust preferred securities 1,400 1,400 Lease obligations(1) 478 94 176 129 79 Power purchase contracts 8,606 687 1,315 1,232 5,372 Fuel and other commitments 1,844 645 686 365 148 Total $ 26,533 $ 3,551 $ 4,436 $ 4,492 $ 14,054 (1) Amounts relate to in service assets as of December 31, 2002. Estimated lease payments for leased assets under construction, as described in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are estimated to be $7 million in 2003 increasing to $79 million by 2005, as projects are completed. 35 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Dominion expects to fund these obligations and commitments with cash flow from operations and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. These amounts do not include planned capital expenditures or working capital commitments, such as the repayment of short term debt and settlement of derivative and energy trading contracts, or amounts for interest or distributions payable on securities issued by Dominion. As described in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion Resources, Inc. and certain subsidiaries have entered agreements that provide financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of unconsolidated entities and officers. At December 31, 2002, these guarantees totaled $102 million. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Issues and Outlook Regulated Electric Operations Electric Deregulation Legislation Virginia Enacted In 1999, the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (the Virginia Restructuring Act) establishes a plan to restructure Virginias electric utility industry. The Act provides for the phase in of choice for retail customers from January 1, 2002 through January 1, 2004. As ordered by the Virginia Commission, Dominion made retail choice available to all of its Virginia regulated electric customers as of January 1, 2003. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions Virginia jurisdictional operations was no longer subject to cost based rate regulation as of January 1, 2002. Dominions base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) will remain capped until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner under the Act. Recovery of generation related costs will continue through capped rates, and, where applicable, a wires charge assessed on those customers opting for alternative suppliers. Dominion may petition the Virginia Commission to terminate the capped rates after January 1, 2004. If Dominion were to request that the capped rates be terminated, the Virginia Commission may terminate the capped rates if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists within Dominions service area. Additionally, the Virginia Restructuring Act provides that after the end of the capped rate period, any default service provided by Dominion will be based upon competitive market prices for electric generation services. The Virginia Commission has opened a proceeding to determine the components of default service in Virginia. North Carolina The North Carolina General Assembly has been exploring the future of electric service in North Carolina, the development of a competitive wholesale market and retail competition. However, to date, there has been no significant activity. Virginia Commission Report on the Status of Competition in Virginia In August 2002, the Virginia Commission submitted to the Governor and the Legislative Transition Task Force (Task Force) its status report on the development of a competitive retail market for electric generation within Virginia. In an addendum to the report, the Virginia Commission recommended that state policymakers should decide promptly whether to proceed with or delay implementation of the Virginia Restructuring Act, in light of recent developments impacting electric industry restructuring in Virginia, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissions (FERC) issuance of a notice of proposed rule making on Standard Market Design. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Legislation that would delay entry into a regional transmission organization (RTO) until on or after July 1, 2004 was approved by the Virginia General Assembly in February 2003 and is now awaiting action by the Governor. The proposed legislation also would require Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join a RTO. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its transmission assets to a RTO by January 1, 2005. Separation of Generation and Delivery Operations in Virginia Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, Virginia Power separated its generation, distribution, and transmission functions through creation of divisions within Virginia Power. Virginia codes of conduct ensure that Virginia Powers generation and other divisions operate independently and prevent cross subsidies between the generation and other divisions. Economic Risks and Benefits During the Transition to a Competitive Electric Marketplace in Virginia As previously discussed, Dominion will recover generation related costs through capped rates and wires charges, where applicable, assessed to those customers opting for alternative suppliers during the transition period, which extends until July 2007, unless modified or terminated earlier under the Virginia Restructuring Act. Under the Act, Dominion may request a termination of the capped rates at any time after January 1, 2004, and the Virginia Commission may grant Dominions request to terminate the capped rates, if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists in Dominions service area. While Dominion is exposed to certain risks as a result of the deregulation of its utility 36 Table of Contents operations, it also has the opportunity to realize potential benefits during this transition period, if management is successful in preparing for the change in the environment in which its generation related business operates. Stranded Costs Stranded costs are those costs incurred or commitments made by utilities under cost based regulation that may not be reasonably expected to be recovered in a competitive market. At December 31, 2002, Dominions exposure to potentially stranded costs consisted of long term purchased power contracts that could ultimately be determined to be above market; generating plants that could possibly become uneconomical in a deregulated environment; and unfunded obligations for nuclear plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits not yet recognized in the financial statements. Dominion believes capped electric retail rates and, where applicable, wires charges will provide an opportunity to recover a portion of its potentially stranded costs, depending on market prices of electricity and other factors. Recovery of Dominions potentially stranded costs remains subject to numerous risks even in the capped rate environment. These include, among others, exposure to long term power purchase commitment losses, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, nuclear decommissioning costs, inflation, increased capital costs, and recovery of certain other items. These items are discussed in Notes 16, 26 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The enactment of deregulation legislation in 1999 not only caused the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, for Dominions utility generation related operations but also caused Dominion to review its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential loss at that time. Significant assumptions considered in that review included possible future market prices for fuel and electricity, load growth, generating unit availability and future capacity additions in Dominions market, capital expenditures, including those related to environmental improvements, and decommissioning activities. Based on those analyses, no recognition of plant impairments or contract losses was appropriate at that time. In response to future events resulting from the development of a competitive market structure in Virginia and the expiration or termination of capped rates and wires charges, Dominion may have to reevaluate its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses. Assumptions about future market prices for electricity represent a critical factor that affects the results of such evaluations. Since 1999, market prices for electricity have fluctuated significantly and will continue to be subject to volatility. Any such review in the future, which would be highly dependent on assumptions considered appropriate at the time, could possibly result in the recognition of plant impairment or contract losses that would be material to Dominions results of operations or its financial position. In December 2002, the Task Force requested the Virginia Commission to convene a work group on stranded costs. The work group will attempt to develop a consensus methodology for determining the over or under recovery of stranded costs. The Virginia Commission will report the work groups findings to the Task Force by July 1, 2003. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Changes to Cost Structure While the Virginia Restructuring Act did not define specific generation related costs to be recovered, it did provide generation related cash flows (through the combination of capped rates and wires charges billed to customers) during the transition period. The generation related cash flows provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act are intended to compensate Dominion for continuing to provide generation services and to allow Dominion management to incur costs to restructure such operations during the transition period. As a result, during the transition period, Dominion may realize an increased rate of return on its generation related operations to the extent that management can favorably alter the cost structure underlying its utility generation related operations. Conversely, the same risks affecting the recovery of Dominions stranded costs, discussed above, may also adversely impact its cost structure during the transition period. Accordingly, Dominion could realize the negative economic impact of any such adverse event. In addition to managing the cost of its generation related operations, Dominion may also seek opportunities to sell available electric energy and capacity to customers beyond its electric utility service territory. Using cash flows from operations during the transition period, Dominion may further alter its cost structure or choose to make additional investment in its business. The capped rates were derived from rates established as part of the 1998 Virginia rate settlement and do not provide for specific recovery of particular generation related expenditures, except for certain regulatory assets. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent that Dominion manages its operations to reduce its overall operating costs below those levels contemplated by the capped rates, Dominions earnings may increase. Since the enactment of the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominion has been reviewing its cost structure to identify opportunities to reduce the annual operating expenses of its generation related operations. For example, in 2001 Dominion terminated certain long term power purchase agreements resulting in an after tax charge of $136 million. By avoiding fixed capacity payments that would have otherwise been required under the contracts, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $30 million during the transition period. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Also in 2002 and 2001, Dominion revised the estimated useful lives of its electric generation, transmission and distribution assets. The changes in estimates were based upon expected life extensions of nuclear plants and new engineering studies of the other assets. As a result of these changes, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $88 million during the transition period. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. RTO The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join a RTO. FERC encourages RTO formation as a means to foster the formation of wholesale markets. FERC Order No. 2000 requires each public utility that owns or operates transmission facilities to make certain filings with respect to RTO formation, but will rely on voluntary formation of RTOs to advance its energy policies. By joining a RTO, Dominions regulated electric utility subsidiary, Virginia Power, would transfer functional control of its transmission assets to a RTO, a third party. In September 2002, Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into the PJM South Implementation Agreement. The agreement provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM, transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region, integrate its control area into the PJM energy markets and otherwise facilitate the establishment and operation of PJM as the RTO with respect to Dominions transmission facilities. The agreement also contemplates additional agreements and transmission tariff provisions to be negotiated by the parties and allocates costs of implementation of the agreement among the parties. Dominion intends to file for FERC approval to join PJM in the future. Dominion will also seek authorization from the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Utilities Commission to become a member of PJM at that time. Dominion will incur integration and operating costs associated with joining a RTO. Dominion has deferred certain of those costs for future recovery and is giving further consideration to seeking regulatory approval to defer the balance of such costs. In December 2002, American Electric Power, Commonwealth Edison Company, Dayton Power and Light Company (collectively, the New PJM Companies), PJM and Dominion tendered a joint filing with FERC. The joint filing proposes to (1) include the New PJM Companies transmission facilities within PJM functional control; (2) establish a transmission rate for the existing PJM region, Dominion and the New PJM Companies; (3) adopt a transitional rate method to maintain transmission revenue for Dominion and the New PJM Companies and (4) amend certain agreements on file with FERC concerning the PJM energy market, planning processes and system operations as related to the integration of the New PJM Companies into PJM. Also in December 2002, Dominion filed with FERC an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to establish a transitional transmission rate method that would apply from the time American Electric Power and Commonwealth Edison Company would begin to participate under the PJM transmission tariff until Dominion joins PJM. Legislation that would delay entry into a RTO until on or after July 1, 2004 was approved by the Virginia General Assembly in February 2003 and is now awaiting action by the Governor. The proposed legislation also would require Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join a RTO. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its transmission assets to a RTO by January 1, 2005. FERC Standard Market Design Proposal In July 2002, FERC issued proposed rules that would establish a standardized transmission service and wholesale electric market design for entities participating in wholesale electric markets. FERC proposed to exercise jurisdiction over the transmission component of bundled retail transactions, modify the existing electric transmission tariff to include a single tariff service applicable to all transmission customers and provide a standard market design for wholesale electric markets. FERC also proposed that transmission owners that have not yet joined a RTO must contract with a separate entity, an independent transmission provider, to operate their transmission facilities. FERC scheduled a number of technical conferences and meetings with interested parties and has indicated that the market design and timing of the rule is subject to change. No assessment can be made at this time concerning future developments. Wholesale Competition Dominions electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale market under its market based sales tariff authorized by FERC but has agreed not to make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located within its service territory. In February 2002, Dominions electric utility subsidiary received FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside its service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary. Dominions sales of natural gas, liquid hydrocarbon by products and oil in wholesale markets are not regulated by FERC. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued Rate Matters Electric Virginia Dominion filed its Virginia Commission approved unbundled rates reflecting the functional separation of generation, transmission and distribution in January 2002. Base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) are capped and will remain unchanged until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner as provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act. Under the Act, Dominion may request a termination of the capped rates at any time after January 1, 2004, and the Virginia Commission may grant Dominions request to terminate the capped rates, if it finds that a competitive generation services market exists in Dominions service area. Where applicable, wires charges, effective January 1, 2002 and subject to annual adjustment, will be paid by Dominions Virginia jurisdictional retail customers who choose an alternative generation supplier during the capped rate period. In October 2002, the Virginia Commission approved Dominions methodology for its 2003 market prices for generation, including a capacity adder, and the resulting wires charges. The capacity adder reflects the capacity value that the sale of generation is expected to produce in addition to an energy value in market prices. Inclusion of the capacity adder in the market price calculation will reduce wires charge revenues by the amount of the expected additional revenue from the sale of the displaced capacity in the wholesale market. Dominions fuel factor for sales to Virginia jurisdictional customers will remain unchanged for 2003. North Carolina Dominions regulated electric utility cannot request an increase in its North Carolina jurisdictional base rates until 2006, except for certain events that would have a significant financial impact. Fuel rates, however, are still subject to change under annual proceedings. Regulated Gas Distribution Operations Gas Deregulation Legislation Each of the three states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations has enacted or considered legislation regarding deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level. Ohio Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, in cooperation with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (Ohio Commission), Dominion on its own initiative offers retail choice to customers. At December 31, 2002, approximately 647,000 of Dominions 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this open access program. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies. Pennsylvania At December 31, 2002, approximately 106,000 residential and small commercial customers had opted for Energy Choice in Dominions Pennsylvania service area. Nearly all Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers buy natural gas from unregulated suppliers. West Virginia At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets. However, the West Virginia Public Service Commission (West Virginia Commission) has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future. In addition, the West Virginia Commission is developing rules for a code of conduct between utilities and their marketing affiliates, as well as Consumer Protection regulations and Marketer Licensing Rules. In 2002, the West Virginia Commission proposed rules that require that competitive gas service providers be licensed in West Virginia. Rate Matters Gas Distribution When necessary, Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia seek general rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of return are compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general rate increases, certain gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. These purchased gas costs are recovered through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs incurred that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. Interstate Gas Transmission Operations FERC Policy Developments In October 2002, FERC hosted a public policy conference regarding various short and long term issues that impact federal regulation of the natural gas industry. Among other issues, FERC examined supply and demand forecasts, the adequacy of natural gas infrastructure, regulatory policies applicable to liquefied natural gas facilities, offshore gathering policies, and the flexibility of interstate pipeline operations. As a result, FERC is considering adjustments to its future regulatory policies concerning the natural gas industry, including modification of its approach to regulation of liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects. The policy change is intended to encourage additional development of LNG terminals and to increase the availability of imported gas supplies. 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued FERC also continues to pursue rulemaking that will eliminate separate standards of conduct regulations for natural gas pipelines and electric transmission utilities, and replace these requirements with uniform standards applicable to interstate Transmission Providers. The proposed standards would redefine the scope of affiliates covered by standards of conduct for most FERC regulated companies. If the proposed policy is adopted, it will supersede the existing standards, that are applicable to Dominion. Dominion supports the policy goal to ensure competitive interstate energy markets; however, Dominion has advocated adjustments to the proposed rules. Dominion anticipates further action by FERC in early 2003. While Dominion expects the outcome of a final rule to improve its ability to compete with similarly situated transmission providers, it does not expect a final rule to have a short term material impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Rate Matters Gas Transmission Dominion implemented various rate filings, tariff changes and negotiated rate service agreements for its FERC regulated businesses during 2002. In all material respects, these filings were approved by FERC in the form requested by Dominion and were subject to only minor modifications. Dominion has no significant rate matters pending before FERC at this time. Merchant Generation Operations Dominions focus in its power generation business is to participate in power generation projects in the MAIN to Maine region, with the focus on a balanced portfolio of generation assets, while maintaining fuel and regional diversity. The region begins at the Mid America Interconnected Network (MAIN) that includes electric service territories of the upper Midwest and is home to Dominions Kincaid, State Line, and Elwood generating facilities. The target region extends east to Virginia Powers service territory and north to New England, where Dominion operates its Millstone power station. Dominion is benefiting from the CNG acquisition, as it is developing and operating natural gas fired power generation facilities along its natural gas pipeline system. Dominion is in various stages of development for new natural gas fired power generation facilities throughout the MAIN to Maine region with estimated completion dates from 2003 and beyond. Exploration and Production Operations Dominion continues to focus on increasing earnings from gas and oil properties primarily through acquisition and development activities, exploration, and operating efficiencies. The November 2001 acquisition of Louis Dreyfus represented the addition of significant, long lived natural gas reserves located in several onshore United States regions serving northeast markets. This addition also provided significant new development drilling opportunities, complementing Dominions existing development and exploration activities. The emphasis toward increased acquisition and development activities, as a complement to the higher risk exploration program, was further supported by the 2002 purchase of several onshore properties having additional development drilling and production enhancement potential. Pipeline Operations Dominion plans to expand its natural gas transmission system with a $497 million, 279 mile interstate pipeline. The Greenbrier Pipeline will originate in Kanawha County, West Virginia, and extend through southwest Virginia into Granville County, North Carolina. Piedmont Natural Gas is a 33 percent owner in the pipeline project. Telecommunications Operations Dominion continues the expansion of its operations as a competitive provider of telecommunications services. These services include providing facilities based, high bandwidth capacity throughout the eastern United States with particular concentration on under served markets. The future growth of its business will involve adding new customers and revenues, lighting its network, developing product extensions, and acquiring select assets. Dominion is building a balanced portfolio of customers representing multiple industry segments. See Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the consolidation of Dominions telecommunications joint venture beginning in February 2003. Environmental Matters Dominion is subject to costs resulting from a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect human health and the environment. These laws and regulations affect future planning and existing operations. They can result in increased capital, operating and other costs as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations. Historically, Dominion recovered such costs arising from regulated electric operations through utility rates. However, to the extent that environmental costs are incurred in connection with operations regulated by the Virginia Commission, during the period ending June 30, 2007, in excess of the level currently included in the Virginia jurisdictional electric retail rates, Dominions results of operations will decrease. After that date, recovery through regulated rates may be sought for only those environmental costs related to regulated electric transmission and distribution operations. Dominion also may seek recovery through regulated rates for environmental expenditures related to regulated gas transmission and distribution operations. 40 Table of Contents Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures Dominion incurred approximately $123 million, $116 million and $94 million of expenses (including depreciation) during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, in connection with environmental protection and monitoring activities, and expects these expenses to be approximately $120 million in 2003. In addition, capital expenditures related to environmental controls were $335 million, $221 million and $214 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The estimated amount for these expenditures is $260 million for 2003. Clean Air Act Compliance The Clean Air Act requires Dominion to reduce its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NOX ), which are gaseous by products of fossil fuel combustion. The Clean Air Acts SO2 reduction program is based on the issuance of a limited number of SO2 emission allowances. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of SO2 into the atmosphere. The allowances may be transacted with a third party. Implementation of projects to comply with SO2 and NOX limitations are ongoing and will be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, availability of allowances, various state and federal control programs, and emission control technology. In response to NOX reduction requirements mandated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for states in which it operates, Dominion plans to install NOX reduction equipment by 2005 at its affected coal fired generating facilities. The installation of this equipment is estimated to cost approximately $715 million, of which $445 million has been incurred as of December 31, 2002. EPA is planning to issue additional regulations to address non attainment of the new ozone and fine particulate standards within the next few years, as well as ongoing regulatory action associated with regional haze. That regulatory action could require additional reductions in SO2 and NOX emissions from Dominions fossil fuel fired generating facilities. In addition, EPA is in the process of developing a proposed standard for mercury emissions for electric utility coal fired boilers that could require significant mercury emission reductions from all of Dominions coal fired generating units. If these more stringent emission reduction requirements are imposed in the future, new and perhaps significant expenditures could be required. Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact of implementing these potential requirements on its operations at this time. The United States Congress is considering various multi pollutant legislative proposals that would require fossil fuel fired generating units to comply with more stringent pollution control standards for air emissions. Many of the proposals would rely upon flexible cap and trade programs for compliance and would exempt covered facilities from other Clean Air Act requirements. They would phase in the emission reduction requirements under a variety of timeframes, up to 16 years. Dominion cannot predict whether any of these proposals will pass this year or in the future. However, if more stringent emissions standards are ultimately imposed on Dominions generating units, new, perhaps significant, expenditures could be required. Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact on its operations at this time. During 2000, Virginia Power received a Notice of Violation from EPA, alleging that Virginia Power failed to obtain New Source Review permits under the Clean Air Act prior to undertaking specified construction projects at the Mt. Storm Power Station in West Virginia. The Attorney General of New York filed a suit against Virginia Power alleging similar violations of the Clean Air Act at the Mt. Storm Power Station. Virginia Power also received notices from the Attorneys General of Connecticut and New Jersey of their intentions to file suit for similar violations. In December 2002, the Attorney General of Connecticut filed a motion to intervene as a plaintiff in the action filed by the New York State Attorney General. This action has been stayed. Management believes that Virginia Power has obtained the necessary permits for its generating facilities. Virginia Power has reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and the state of New York to resolve this situation. The agreement in principle includes payment of a $5 million civil penalty, a commitment of $14 million for environmental projects in Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, and a 12 year, $1.2 billion capital investment program for environmental improvements at the Companys coal fired generating stations in Virginia and West Virginia. Virginia Power had already committed to a substantial portion of the $1.2 billion expenditures for SO2 and NOx emissions controls. The negotiations over the terms of a binding settlement have expanded beyond the basic agreement in principle and are ongoing. As of December 31, 2002, Virginia Power has recorded, on a discounted basis, $18 million for the civil penalty and environmental projects. In 2002, EPA issued a Section 114 request for information about whether projects undertaken at Virginia Powers Chesterfield, Chesapeake, Yorktown, Possum Point and Bremo Bluff power stations were properly permitted under the Clean Air Acts New Source Review requirements, to which Virginia Power responded in a timely manner. In 2002, the EPA issued a Section 114 request for information about whether Morgantown Energy Associates (MEA) facility in Morgantown, West Virginia is in 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued compliance with environmental requirements. MEA is a 50 percent owned equity method investment. EPA made a site visit and at that time received the requested information. In September 2002, MEA received a copy of EPAs inspection report summarizing the facts surrounding the visit. MEA is prepared to resolve follow up questions from EPA. Global Climate Change In 1997, the United States signed an international Protocol to limit man made greenhouse emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. However, the Protocol will not become binding unless approved by the U.S. Senate. Currently, the Bush Administration has indicated that it will not pursue ratification of the Protocol, and has set a voluntary goal of reducing the nations greenhouse gas emission intensity by 18 percent over the next ten years. However, the United States Congress is considering legislation that could impose mandatory reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. The cost of compliance with the Protocol or other mandatory greenhouse gas reduction obligations could be significant for Dominion. Given the highly uncertain outcome and timing of future action by the U.S. federal government on this issue, Dominion cannot predict the future financial impact of climate change action on its operations at this time. Accounting Matters The FASB has issued several new standards that will affect Dominion beginning in 2003. These include: SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations; Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others An Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107; and Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. In addition, the EITF rescinded EITF Issue No. 98 10. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the impact of adopting these new accounting standards and information about other standard setting activities. Outlook for 2003 Dominion believes its operating businesses will provide a stable contribution to net income on a per share basis in 2003, with future growth in 2004. However, Dominions earnings per share for 2003, on a consolidated basis, will include the effects of the following items: severance costs under the plan discussed below; fees paid to modify the DFV notes (see Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); and the cumulative effect of implementing changes in accounting for asset retirement obligations and energy trading activities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The 2003 projections for Dominions operating businesses anticipate the following: n Higher sales of gas and oil, reflecting continued growth in production and higher realized prices; n Improved contributions from Millstones operations, resulting from fewer planned outage days and more favorable sales prices; n Expected Six Sigma cost savings; n Potential decrease in regulated electric sales, as compared to 2002, assuming Dominions utility service territories experience a return to normal weather in 2003, partially offset by continued growth in electric utility customers; n Expiration of production tax credits; n Lower pension benefit credits; and n Increased losses from telecommunications operations. Based on these projections, Dominion estimates that cash flow from operations will increase in 2003, as compared to 2002. Such increase, coupled with reductions in discretionary and developmental capital expenditures previously planned for power generation and gas and oil exploration and production projects, will provide sufficient cash flow to maintain Dominions current dividend to common shareholders. Other Matters Pension Costs As discussed in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion maintains qualified noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans. Generally, Dominions funding policy is to contribute annually an amount that is in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Investment experience and market conditions, including interest rates, impact the measurement of these benefit obligations and the cost of providing such benefits. Accordingly, assumptions for discount rates and the expected long term rate of return on investments are important considerations under SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. However, since the objective of SFAS No. 87 is to recognize the cost of providing benefits over employees service period, it permits the delayed recognition of certain elements of retirement plan results. Dominion has reviewed the assumption used for expected long term rate of return on plan assets to better reflect anticipated future market conditions and has adopted an expected rate of 8.75 percent for 2003. This change, combined with other factors such as a revised discount rate assumption of 6.75 percent for 2003, will reduce Dominions 2003 pension credit by an estimated $66 million, as compared to 2002. In addition, in order to maintain the funded status of its retirement plans, Dominion may have to contribute increased amounts to the plans in future years. If, in the future, the accumulated benefit obligations of Dominions retirement 42 Table of Contents plans should exceed the fair value of the plans investments at year end, Dominion would have to recognize a minimum pension liability for that amount. Furthermore, the recognition of a minimum pension liability would require the elimination of any prepaid pension cost reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet at that time, resulting in a charge to other comprehensive income and a material adverse impact on common shareholders equity. Workforce Reductions In January 2003, Dominion announced plans to eliminate some union and salaried positions during 2003. The workforce reductions will affect primarily support positions, including meter readers, supply and warehouse workers and auto mechanics. Many of the reductions result from investments in automated meter reading technology and the purchases of newer, lower maintenance vehicles. Affected workers will be offered severance packages, and benefits for union workers will be negotiated during 2003. Pending completion of the process to identify affected positions, Dominion has not estimated the cost of the workforce reductions. Expiration of Section 29 Tax Credits The Internal Revenue Code Section 29 Credit for the Production of Fuel from Nonconventional Sources (also referred to as the production tax credit) allows income tax credits for certain qualified production, including some natural gas, sold before January 1, 2003. Congress has not acted on legislation to extend this credit beyond 2002 for most qualified production. Whether Congress will take any action to extend the credit during the current term is uncertain. Dominion utilized approximately $36 million of these credits for the year ending December 31, 2002. Nuclear Relicensing Dominion filed applications with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for 20 year life extensions for the North Anna and Surry units in May 2001. The NRC has completed its review of the applications and Dominion expects to receive a renewed license for these units in 2003. Dominion has also performed an internal assessment on the probability of a successful license renewal application for both of its operating Millstone units. Based on this assessment and other factors, Dominion has initiated preparations to apply for a 20 year extension of the licenses for both its operating Millstone units. Dominion expects to file a completed application based on NRC guidelines in 2004. Nuclear Insurance The Price Anderson Act expired in August 2002, but operating nuclear reactors would continue to be covered by the law, which would channel and cap claims if a nuclear accident should occur. The Act has been renewed three times since 1957, and Congress is currently holding hearings to reauthorize the legislation. The expiration of the Act does not impact the coverage of existing nuclear license holders. Effect of Changes in Commodity Prices Dominions operations are impacted by changes in energy commodity prices. When energy commodities are sold by one of Dominions utilities subject to cost of service rate regulation, commodity costs are generally recovered through rates. Market price changes impact Dominions revenue from natural gas and oil production and from commodity sales through unregulated subsidiaries. Dominion has established an enterprise risk management function to evaluate these risks and to recommend actions to management that are intended to mitigate such risks. Future Acquisitions Because Dominions industry is rapidly changing, there are many opportunities for acquisitions of assets, as well as for business combinations. Dominion investigates any opportunity that may increase shareholder value and build on existing businesses, with an objective to enter into transactions that would be immediately accretive to earnings per share. Dominion has participated in the past and its security holders may assume that at any time Dominion may be participating in bidding or other negotiations for such transactions. Such participation may or may not result in a transaction for Dominion. However, any such transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash, debt or equity securities. It may also involve payment of a premium over book or market values. Such transactions or payments could affect the market prices and rates for Dominions securities. Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Dominions financial instruments, commodity contracts and related derivative instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, commodity prices and equity security prices as described below. Interest rate risk generally is related to Dominions outstanding debt and financial services activities. Commodity price risk is present in Dominions electric operations, gas production and procurement operations, and energy marketing and trading operations due to the exposure to market shifts for prices received and paid for natural gas, electricity and other commodities. Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage price risk exposures for these operations. Dominion is exposed to equity price risk through various portfolios of equity securities. Dominions sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued instruments over a selected time period due to a 10 percent unfavorable change in interest rates and commodity prices. Commodity Price Risk Trading Activities As part of its strategy to market energy and to manage related risks, Dominion manages a portfolio of commodity based derivative instruments held for trading purposes. These contracts are sensitive to changes in the prices of natural gas, electricity and certain other commodities. Dominion uses established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these price fluctuations and uses derivative instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, to mitigate risk by creating offsetting market positions. In addition, Dominion seeks to use its generation capacity, when not needed to serve customers in its service territory, to satisfy commitments to sell energy. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $41 million and $12 million in the fair value of its commodity contracts held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Commodity Price Risk Non Trading Activities Dominion manages the price risk associated with purchases and sales of natural gas, oil and electricity by using derivative commodity instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the fair value of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Market prices and volatility are principally determined based on quoted prices on the futures exchange. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in market prices of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of approximately $331 million and $155 million as of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from derivative commodity instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, are generally offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Interest Rate Risk Dominion manages its interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. Dominion also enters into interest rate sensitive derivatives, including interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. In addition, Dominion, through subsidiaries, retains ownership of mortgage investments, including subordinated bonds and interest only residual assets retained at securitization of mortgage loans originated and purchased. For financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would decrease annual earnings by approximately $4 million. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates, as determined at December 31, 2001, would have resulted in a decrease in annual earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discussed investments in retained interests from prior securitizations. Foreign Exchange Risk Dominions Canadian natural gas and oil exploration and production activities are relatively self contained within Canada. As a result, Dominions exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for these activities is limited primarily to the effects of translation adjustments that arise from including that operation in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominions management monitors this exposure and believes it is not material. In addition, Dominion manages its foreign exchange risk exposure associated with anticipated future purchases of uranium enrichment services denominated in foreign currencies by utilizing currency forward contracts. As of result of holding these contracts as hedges, Dominions exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal. A hypothetical 10 percent unfavorable change in relevant foreign exchange rates would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $22 million and $5 million in the fair value of currency forward contracts held by Dominion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Investment Price Risk Dominion is subject to investment price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in decommissioning trust funds. In accordance with current accounting standards, these marketable securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. As described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion recognized net realized and unrealized losses on decommissioning trust investments of $150 million for 2002 and $14 million for 2001. Dominion also sponsors employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund benefit payments. To the extent that the values of investments held in these trusts decline, the effect will be reflected in Dominions recognition of the periodic cost of such employee benefit plans and the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit 44 Table of Contents plans. The net realized and unrealized losses on pension trust investments was $241 million for 2002 and $91 million for 2001. Risk Management Policies Dominion has operating procedures in place that are administered by experienced management to help ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, Dominion has established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the risk management policies of all subsidiaries. Dominion maintains credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterpartys financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary, and the use of standardized agreements which facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, Dominion also monitors the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on credit policies and the December 31, 2002 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the effects of Enrons bankruptcy on Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 45 Table of Contents 
 
