Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for additional information on how weather may affect Dominions results of operations. Regulation Dominion is subject to regulation by the SEC, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Army Corps of Engineers, and other federal, state and local authorities. State Regulatory Matters Electric Dominions electric retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission) and the North Carolina Utilities Commission (North Carolina Commission). Dominions electric utility subsidiary holds certificates of public convenience and necessity authorizing it to maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, it may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. Status of Electric Deregulation in Virginia The Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (Virginia Restructuring Act) was enacted in 1999 and established a plan to restructure the electric utility industry in Virginia. The Virginia Restructuring Act addressed among other things: capped base rates, regional transmission organization (RTO) participation, retail choice, the recovery of stranded costs and the functional separation of a utilitys electric generation from its electric transmission and distribution operations. Retail choice has been available to all of Dominions Virginia regulated electric customers since January 1, 2003. Dominion has also separated its generation, distribution and transmission functions through the creation of divisions within Virginia Power. Virginia codes of conduct ensure that Virginia Powers generation and other divisions operate independently and prevent cross subsidies between the generation and other divisions. Since the passage of the Virginia Restructuring Act, the competitive environment has not developed in Virginia as anticipated. In January 2004, legislation supported by the Offices of the Governor and the Attorney General of Virginia was submitted to the Virginia General Assembly that would extend the capped base rates by three and one half years, through December 31, 2010. The bill was supported by Dominion and was approved by the Virginia Senate in late January 2004. In addition to extending capped rates, the bill would: n Lock in Dominions fuel factor until the earlier of July 1, 2007 or the termination of capped rates through Virginia Commission order; n Provide for a one time adjustment of Dominions fuel factor, effective July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, with no adjustment for previously incurred over recovery or under recovery of fuel costs and thus would eliminate deferred fuel accounting; and n End wires charges on the earlier of July 1, 2007, or the termination of capped rates, consistent with the Virginia Restructuring Acts original timetable. Other bills were introduced in the Virginia House of Delegates that would repeal the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend most of the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend customer choice, and re impose cost of service rate making. Legislation calling for suspension of the Virginia Restructuring Acts key provisions and a return to the cost of service regulatory methodology was defeated in a House committee in early February. Other measures have been deferred to 2005 by a House committee. Until the legislative process is concluded, no assessment can be made concerning future developments. 4 Table of Contents See Status of Deregulation in Virginia in Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A for additional information on capped base rates, stranded costs and RTO participation. Retail Access Pilot Programs In September 2003, the Virginia Commission approved Dominions application for three proposed electric retail access pilot programs. The programs were proposed by Dominion to stimulate the development of retail electric competition in Virginia. The pilot programs are to run through the remainder of the capped rate period and will make available to competitive service providers up to 500 megawatts of load, with expected participation of more than 65,000 customers from a variety of customer classes. The programs were scheduled to begin in February 2004. However in January 2004, Dominion asked the Virginia Commission for an extension in the start of the programs by 60 days so that it may address deregulation legislation under consideration by the Virginia General Assembly, increased market prices for electricity due to colder weather and reevaluate the size and design of the programs due to the large numbers of volunteers. In February 2004, the Virginia Commission granted the 60 day extension. Rate Matters Virginia In December 2003, the Virginia Commission approved Dominions proposed settlement of its 2004 fuel factor increase of $386 million. The settlement includes a recovery period for the under recovery balance over three and a half years. Approximately $171 million of the $386 million would be recovered in 2004, $85 million in 2005, $87 million in 2006 and $43 million in the first six months of 2007. Under current Virginia law, Dominion is permitted to request adjustments to its fuel rates, subject to the Virginia Restructuring Act. Dominion is generally permitted to pass the cost of recoverable fuel and certain purchased power costs to its customers through a fuel factor, to the extent the Virginia Commission determines after hearing that such costs are prudently incurred. Certain proposed modifications to the timing and scope of fuel adjustments are the subject of proposed legislation in the Virginia General Assembly which is discussed above in Status of Electric Deregulation in Virginia. North Carolina In connection with the North Carolina Commissions approval of the CNG acquisition, Dominion agreed not to request an increase in North Carolina retail electric base rates until 2006, except for certain events that would have a significant financial impact on Dominions electric utility operations. Fuel rates are still subject to change under the annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings. In January 2004, the North Carolina Public Staff requested that the North Carolina Commission initiate an investigation into Dominions North Carolina base rates and sought a decrease in base rates. Dominion believes that its base rates are reasonable and intends to respond to the filing; however, Dominion cannot predict the outcome of this matter at this time. Gas Dominions gas distribution service is regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (Ohio Commission), the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (Pennsylvania Commission) and the West Virginia Public Service Commission (West Virginia Commission). Status of Gas Deregulation Each of the three states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations has enacted or considered legislation regarding deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level. Ohio Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission, Dominion on its own initiative offers retail choice to customers. At December 31, 2003, approximately 670,000 of Dominions 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this open access program. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies. Pennsylvania In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential and small commercial customers. At December 31, 2003, approximately 95,000 residential and small commercial customers had opted for Energy Choice in Dominions Pennsylvania service area. Nearly all Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers buy natural gas from nonregulated suppliers. West Virginia At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia. Rate Matters Gas Distribution Dominions gas distribution business subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they operate Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary, Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries seek general rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased operating costs. In addition to general rate increases, certain of Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. These purchased gas costs are generally subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover prospective three month or twelve month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses. 5 Table of Contents Ohio In December 2003, the Ohio Commission approved a joint application filed by Dominion and several other Ohio natural gas companies for recovery of bad debt expense via a rider known as a bad debt tracker. The tracker insulates Dominion from the effect of changes in bad debt expense, which is affected by the volatility of natural gas prices, weather, and prices charged by competitive retail natural gas suppliers. The tracker is an adjustable rate that recovers the cost of bad debt in a manner similar to a gas cost recovery rate. Instead of recovering bad debt costs through its base rates, Dominion now will recover all bad debt expenses through the bad debt tracker and will remove bad debt from base rates. Annually, Dominion will assess the need to adjust the tracker based on the preceding years actual bad debt expense. West Virginia In August 2003, Dominion filed an application with the West Virginia Commission to increase its purchased gas cost rate by approximately $31 million on an annualized basis, effective for the period January 1, 2004 through October 31, 2004. The increase is in anticipation of higher purchased gas costs expected for that period. Dominions rate moratorium expired at the end of 2003. The application reflects the traditional purchased gas adjustment treatment for Dominions purchased gas costs. The West Virginia Commission issued an order setting an interim rate in the fourth quarter of 2003, with a final rate order to be issued in the second quarter of 2004. Rate Matters Gas Transmission Dominion implemented various rate filings, tariff changes and negotiated rate service agreements for its FERC regulated businesses during 2003. In all material respects, these filings were approved by FERC in the form requested by Dominion and were subject to only minor modifications. Dominion has no significant rate matters pending before FERC at this time. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (1935 Act) Dominion is a registered holding company under the 1935 Act. The 1935 Act and related regulations issued by the SEC govern activities of Dominion and its subsidiaries with respect to the issuance and acquisition of securities, acquisition and sale of utility assets, certain transactions among affiliates, engaging in business activities not directly related to the utility or energy business and other matters. Dominion became a registered public utility holding company when it completed the CNG acquisition in January 2000. The 1935 Act prohibits registered companies from owning businesses not directly related to utility or other energy operations. Dominion has substantially completed its strategy to exit the core operating business of Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI), its financial services subsidiary, and continues to seek opportunities to divest the remaining assets. Currently, Dominion is required to divest of all remaining DCI holdings by January 2006. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission In November 2003, FERC issued new Standards of Conduct governing conduct between interstate transmission gas and electricity providers and their marketing function or their energy related affiliates. The new rule redefines the scope of the affiliates covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their marketing functions or affiliates undue preferences. All transmission providers must be in compliance by June 2004. Dominion has adopted an implementation plan and will train the appropriate personnel to ensure compliance with the new rules. Other FERC regulations that affect the electric and gas industries are discussed below. Electric Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales of electricity and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Dominions electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale market under its market based sales tariff authorized by FERC but does not make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located within its service territory. In February 2002, Dominions electric utility subsidiary received FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside its service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary. Dominions sales of natural gas, liquid hydrocarbon by products and oil in wholesale markets are not regulated by FERC. The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join an RTO, and FERC encourages RTO formation as a means to foster wholesale market formation. Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into an agreement in September 2002 that provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM and transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region. However, in April 2003, Virginia enacted legislation that required Dominion to file an application with the Virginia Commission by July 1, 2003 to join an RTO and delayed entry into an RTO until on or after July 1, 2004. Subject to Virginia Commission approval, Dominion would be required to transfer management and control of its electric transmission assets to an RTO by January 1, 2005. For additional discussion on this matter, see RTO in Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A. Gas FERC regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. FERC also has jurisdiction over the construction of pipeline and related facilities used in transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. Competition in the natural gas industry was increased by FERC Order 636, which was issued in 1992. FERC Order 636 6 Table of Contents requires transmission pipelines to operate as open access transporters and provide transportation and storage services on an equal basis for all gas suppliers, whether purchased from Dominion or from another gas supplier. Dominions interstate gas transportation and storage activities are conducted in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC. Dominion is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, which authorizes the establishment and enforcement of federal pipeline safety standards and places jurisdiction of these standards with the Department of Transportation. In December 2002, Congress enacted the Pipeline Safety Act of 2002, which included new mandates regarding the inspection frequency for interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines located in areas of high density population where the consequences of potential pipeline accidents pose the greatest risk to people and their property. The Company is currently evaluating its natural gas transmission and storage properties under the final regulations issued in December 2003 and is currently assessing the nature and costs of inspection and potential remediation activities at this time. Environmental Regulations Each operating segment faces substantial regulation and compliance costs with respect to environmental matters. For discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance, see Environmental Matters in Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time Dominion may be identified as a potentially responsible party to a Superfund site. The EPA (or a state) can either (a) allow such a party to conduct and pay for a remedial investigation, feasibility study and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial investigation and action and then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each party can be held jointly, severally and strictly liable for all costs. These parties can also bring contribution actions against each other and seek reimbursement from their insurance companies. As a result, Dominion may be responsible for the costs of remedial investigation and actions under the Superfund Act or other laws or regulations regarding the remediation of waste. Dominion does not believe that any currently identified sites will result in significant liabilities. In December 2003, the EPA announced plans to propose additional regulations addressing pollution transport from electric generating plants as well as the regulation of mercury and nickel emissions. These regulatory actions, in addition to revised regulations expected to be issued in 2004 to address regional haze, could require additional reductions in emissions from the Companys fossil fuel fired generating facilities. If these new emission reduction requirements are imposed, additional significant expenditures may be required. The United States Congress is considering various legislative proposals that would require generating facilities to comply with more stringent air emissions standards. Emission reduction requirements under consideration would be phased in under a variety of periods of up to 16 years. If these new proposals are adopted, additional significant expenditures may be required. The EPA has announced the publication of new regulations that govern existing utilities that employ a cooling water intake structure, and whose flow levels exceed a minimum threshold. As announced, the EPAs proposed rule presents several control options. Dominion is evaluating facility information from certain of its power stations. Dominion cannot predict the future impact on its operations at this time. Dominion has applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the operation of its regulated facilities. Many of these permits are subject to re issuance and continuing review. Nuclear Regulatory Commission All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominions nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion Generation segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires. From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominions nuclear generating units. The NRC also requires Dominion to decontaminate nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and Dominion is required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on Dominions decommissioning trusts, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interconnections Dominion maintains major interconnections with Progress Energy, American Electric Power Company, Inc., PJM West and PJM. Through this major transmission network, Dominion has arrangements with these entities for coordinated planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy. See also RTO in Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A. 7 Table of Contents Competition Deregulation and restructuring in the electric and gas industries continue to create issues that affect or will likely affect the markets where Dominion Generation and Dominion Delivery do business, and govern the way these business units and their competitors operate. The electric power and natural gas industries continue to evolve into a competitive marketplace where energy companies will compete to provide energy and energy services to a broad range of customers. Dominion Delivery Retail Electric Distribution As noted earlier, Dominion has made retail choice available for all of its Virginia regulated electric customers since January 1, 2003. For additional information on electric deregulation in Virginia, see Status of Electric Deregulation in Virginia. In North Carolina, regulators and legislators have explored the issues related to electric industry restructuring, the development of a competitive, wholesale market and retail competition. However, to date, there has been no significant activity. Dominion plans to continue to participate actively in both the legislative and regulatory processes to ensure an orderly transition from a regulated environment. Retail Gas Distribution Deregulation is at varying stages in the three states in which Dominions gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential and small commercial customers. In Ohio, legislation has not been enacted to require supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion offers an Energy Choice program to customers on its own initiative, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission. West Virginia does not require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets at this time. See Status of Gas Deregulation for additional information. Dominion Energy Dominions large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the countrys major gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions and on the East Coast. Dominions pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system which continues to provide local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers the accessibility of supplies nationwide. Dominion competes with domestic and Canadian pipeline companies and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services for customers. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain longline pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enables Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers. Dominion Exploration & Production Dominion conducts exploration and production operations in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico and Western Canada. Competitors range from major, international oil companies to smaller, independent producers. Dominion faces significant competition in the bidding for federal offshore leases and in obtaining leases and drilling rights for onshore properties. Since Dominion is the operator of a number of properties, it also faces competition in securing drilling equipment and supplies for exploration and development. In terms of its production activities, Dominion sells most of its deliverable natural gas and oil into short and intermediate term markets. Dominion faces challenges related to the marketing of its natural gas and oil production due to the contraction of participants in the energy marketing industry. However, Dominion owns a large and diverse natural gas and oil portfolio and maintains an active gas and oil marketing presence in its primary production regions, which strengthens its knowledge of the marketplace and delivery options. Dominion Generation Dominion has a diversified generation portfolio located in the Midwest, Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions of the United States. In Virginia and North Carolina, Dominions electric utility generation, along with power purchases, is used to serve its utility service area obligations. Revenues for serving this load are based on capped rates, with the majority of fuel costs for both its utility generating fleet and power purchases being recovered through the fuel factor. Subject to market conditions, any generation remaining after meeting system needs is sold outside of Dominions service area. With respect to its merchant generation fleet, Dominion owns and operates three large facilities in the Midwest. These generation plants are all under long term contracts and are therefore largely unaffected by competition. The majority of Dominion Generations remaining merchant assets operates within functioning Independent System Operators (ISO). Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the ISO. These ISOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generations merchant units have a variety of short and medium term contracts, and also compete in the spot market with other generators to produce any number of products including energy, capacity and operating reserves. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies, and operating characteristics of the fleet 8 Table of Contents within any given ISO. However, management believes that Dominion has the expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to ensure its merchant fleet remains competitive compared to like assets within the region. Availability of Fuel for Electric Generation Dominion uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation. These include a mix of both nuclear fuel and fossil fuel as described further below. Nuclear Fuel Dominion utilizes both long term contracts and short term purchases to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimum cost and inventory levels. Fossil Fuel Dominion utilizes coal, oil and natural gas in its fossil fuel operations. Dominion Generations coal supply is obtained through long term contracts and spot purchases. Oil and oil fired generation are used primarily to support heavier system generation loads during very cold or very hot weather periods. System requirements are purchased mainly under short term spot agreements. Dominion uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for Dominions jurisdictional and non jurisdictional generation facilities. Dominions gas supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Southwest and Midwest regions; purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; and withdrawals from Dominions and third party underground storage fields. Firm natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) exist that allow delivery of gas to our facilities. Dominions capacity portfolio allows flexible natural gas deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs. Availability of Natural Gas for Retail Distribution Dominion is engaged in the sale and storage of natural gas through its operating subsidiaries. Sources of gas supplies for sale to customers are the same as those described in Fossil Fuel Supply above. Dominion continues to purchase volumes from the array of accessible producing basins using its firm capacity resources. These purchased supplies include Appalachian resources in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia and production from the Gulf Coast, Mid Continent and offshore areas. Upon FERCs restructuring of the interstate pipeline business in 1992 and 1993, pipelines no longer sell the delivered natural gas commodity; rather, customers provide their own gas supply for wholesale storage and or delivery by the pipelines. Much of the supply is purchased by local distributors, energy marketing companies or end users under seasonal or spot purchase agreements. Dominions underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with sales demand and are essential to servicing the Mid Atlantic and Northeasts large volume of space heating business. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transport capacity. 9 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Dominion leases its principal executive office in Richmond, Virginia as well as corporate offices in other cities in which its subsidiaries operate. It also owns two corporate offices in Richmond. Dominions assets consist primarily of its investments in its subsidiaries, the principal properties of which are described below. Substantially all of Dominions electric subsidiarys property is subject to the lien of the mortgage securing its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds and certain of its nonutility generation facilities are subject to liens. Dominion Deliverys right of way grants from the apparent owners of real estate have been obtained for most electric lines, but underlying titles have not been examined except for transmission lines of 69 kV or more. Where rights of way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked. Dominion Deliverys investment in its gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The gas distribution network includes approximately 27,000 miles of pipe, exclusive of service pipe. Dominion Energy has more than 100 compressor stations with approximately 597,000 installed compressor horsepower located in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York. Dominion Energy has approximately 6,000 miles of electric transmission lines and approximately 7,900 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines. Portions of Dominion Energys electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, surplus capacity in the line, if any exists. Dominion Energy operates 26 underground gas storage fields located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York. Dominion owns 20 of these storage fields and has joint ownership with other companies in six of the fields. The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields is approximately 960 billion cubic feet (bcf). Dominions share of the total capacity is about 717 bcf. Dominion Energy also has 5 bcf of above ground storage capacity at its Cove Point liquefied natural gas facility. Dominions storage operation also includes approximately 372,000 acres of operated leaseholds and more than 2,000 storage wells. The map below illustrates Dominions gas transmission pipelines, storage facilities and electric transmission lines. 10 Table of Contents Dominion Exploration & Production owns 6.4 trillion cubic feet of proved equivalent natural gas reserves and produces approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet of equivalent natural gas per day from its leasehold acreage and facility investments. Dominion, either alone or with partners, holds interests in natural gas and oil lease acreage, wellbores, well facilities, production platforms and gathering systems. Dominion also owns or holds rights to seismic data and other tools used in exploration and development drilling activities. Dominions share of developed leasehold totals 3.2 million acres, with another 2.3 million acres held for future exploration and development drilling opportunities. Information detailing Dominions gas and oil operations presented below and on the following pages includes the activities of the Dominion Exploration & Production segment and the production activity of Dominion Transmission, Inc., which is included in the Dominion Energy segment: Company Owned Proved Gas and Oil Reserves Estimated net quantities of proved gas and oil reserves at December 31 of each of the last three years were as follows: 2003 2002 2001 ProvedDeveloped TotalProved ProvedDeveloped TotalProved ProvedDeveloped TotalProved Proved gas reserves (bcf) United States 3,553 4,801 3,549 4,458 3,026 3,517 Canada 453 568 486 640 440 573 Total proved gas reserves 4,006 5,369 4,035 5,098 3,466 4,090 Proved oil reserves (000 bbls) United States 42,347 135,914 47,759 138,798 46,473 115,988 Canada 17,407 34,020 18,064 30,432 17,304 24,579 Total proved oil reserves 59,754 169,934 65,823 169,230 63,777 140,567 Total proved gas and oil reserves (bcfe) 4,364 6,388 4,430 6,113 3,850 4,933 11 Certain subsidiaries of Dominion file Form EIA 23 with the DOE, which reports gross proved reserves, including the working interests share of other owners, for properties operated by such Dominion subsidiaries. The proved reserves reported in the table above represent Dominions share of proved reserves for all properties, based on Dominions ownership interest in each property. For properties operated by Dominion, the difference between the proved reserves reported on Form EIA 23 and the gross reserves associated with the Company owned proved reserves reported in the table above, does not exceed five percent. Estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2003 are based upon studies for each Dominion property prepared by Dominions staff engineers and reviewed by either Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. or Ryder Scott Company, L.P. Table of Contents Calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines. Quantities of Gas and Oil Produced Quantities of gas and oil produced* during each of the last three years ending December 31 follow: 2003 2002 2001 Gas production (bcf) United States 347 346 238 Canada 49 53 57 Total gas production 396 399 295 Oil production (000 bbls) United States 7,642 8,653 6,134 Canada 1,081 1,072 1,529 Total oil production 8,723 9,725 7,663 Total gas and oil production (bcfe) 449 458 341 * Gas and oil production quantities include the production from the Dominion Exploration & Production segment and the production activity of Dominion Transmission, Inc., which is included in the Dominion Energy segment. The average sales price per thousand cubic feet (mcf) of gas with hedging results (including transfers to other Dominion operations at market prices) realized during the years 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $3.98, $3.41 and $3.83, respectively. The respective average prices without hedging results per mcf of gas produced were $5.02, $3.04 and $3.92. The respective average sales prices realized for oil with hedging results were $24.30, $23.29 and $23.42 per barrel and the respective average prices without hedging results were $29.82, $24.45 and $23.53 per barrel. The average production (lifting) cost per mcf equivalent of gas and oil produced (as calculated per SEC guidelines) during the years 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $0.80, $0.60 and $0.65, respectively. Acreage Gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2003 was:  Developed Acreage Undeveloped Acreage Gross Net Gross Net United States 3,828,253 2,398,568 3,219,089 1,644,919 Canada 1,429,698 788,165 856,973 627,256 Total 5,257,951 3,186,733 4,076,062 2,272,175 12 Table of Contents Net Wells Drilled in the Calendar Year The number of net wells completed during each of the last three years ending December 31 follows: 2003 2002 2001 Exploratory: United States Productive 8 12 17 Dry 7 12 15 Total United States 15 24 32 Canada Productive 10 1 2 Dry 1 1 1 Total Canada 11 2 3 Total Exploratory 26 26 35 Development: United States Productive 819 774 372 Dry 36 38 3 Total United States 855 812 375 Canada Productive 31 61 93 Dry 10 11 15 Total Canada 41 72 108 Total Development 896 884 483 Total wells drilled (net): 922 910 518 As of December 31, 2003, 93 gross (64 net) wells were in process of drilling, including wells temporarily suspended. Productive Wells The number of productive gas and oil wells in which Dominions subsidiaries had an interest at December 31, 2003, follow: Gross Net Gas wells United States 23,633 15,602 Canada 928 605 Total gas wells 24,561 16,207 Oil wells United States 1,017 525 Canada 531 222 Total oil wells 1,548 747 The number of productive wells includes 311 gross (123 net) multiple completion gas wells and 22 gross (10 net) multiple completion oil wells. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for productive well count purposes. 13 Table of Contents Dominion Generation provides electricity for use on a wholesale and a retail level. Dominion Generation can supply electricity demand either from its generation facilities in Connecticut, Indiana, Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia or through purchased power contracts when needed. The following table lists Dominions generating units and capability. Dominions Power Generation Plant Location Primary Fuel Type Net SummerCapability (Mw) Utility Generation North Anna Mineral, VA Nuclear 1,628 (a) Surry Surry, VA Nuclear 1,625 Altavista Altavista, VA Coal 63 Bremo Bremo Bluff, VA Coal 227 Chesapeake Chesapeake, VA Coal 595 Chesterfield Chester, VA Coal 1,234 Clover Clover, VA Coal 441 (b) Mt. Storm Mt. Storm, WV Coal 1,569 North Branch Bayard, WV Coal 74 Southampton Southampton, VA Coal 63 Yorktown Yorktown, VA Coal 326 Chesapeake (CT) Chesapeake, VA Oil 144 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Oil 144 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Oil 183 Kitty Hawk (CT) Kitty Hawk, NC Oil 44 Low Moor (CT) Covington, VA Oil 60 Northern Neck (CT) Lively, VA Oil 64 Possum Point Dumfries, VA Oil 786 Possum Point (CT) Dumfries, VA Oil 78 Yorktown Yorktown, VA Oil 818 Bellmeade (CC) Richmond, VA Gas 230 Chesterfield (CC) Chester, VA Gas 397 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Gas 144 Gordonsville (CC) Gordonsville, VA Gas 217 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Gas 146 Ladysmith (CT) Ladysmith, VA Gas 290 Possum Point (CC) Dumfries, VA Gas 322 Possum Point (CT) Dumfries, VA Gas 545 Remington (CT) Remington, VA Gas 580 Bath County Warm Springs, VA Hydro 1,464 (c) Gaston Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 225 Roanoke Rapids Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 99 Other Various Various 15 14,840 Non utility Generation Millstone Waterford, CT Nuclear 1,954 (d) Kincaid Kincaid, IL Coal 1,158 State Line Hammond, IN Coal 515 Morgantown Morgantown, WV Coal 33 (e) Elwood (CT) Elwood, IL Gas 682 (f) Armstrong (CT) Shelocta, PA Gas 600 Troy (CT) Luckey, OH Gas 600 Pleasants (CT) St. Marys, WV Gas 300 Others Various Various 31 5,873 Purchased Capacity 3,550 Net Purchases 145 Total Capacity 24,408 Note: (CT) denotes combustion turbine and (CC) denotes combined cycle (a) Excludes 11.6 percent undivided interest owned by Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC). (b) Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by ODEC. (c) Excludes 40 percent undivided interest owned by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc. (d) Excludes 6.53 percent undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and Central Vermont Public Service Company. (e) Excludes 50 percent interest owned by Cogen Technologies Morgantown, Ltd. and Hickory Power Corporation. (f) Excludes 50 percent interest owned by Peoples Energy. 14 Table of Contents Nuclear Decommissioning Dominion has a total of six licensed, operating nuclear reactors at its Surry and North Anna plants in Virginia and its Millstone plant in Connecticut. Surry and North Anna serve customers of Dominions regulated electric utility operations. Millstone is a non regulated merchant plant with two operating units. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired the plant. Decommissioning represents the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power plant, once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Through July 2007, amounts are being collected from ratepayers and placed in trusts and invested to fund the expected costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units. As part of its acquisition of Millstone, Dominion acquired the decommissioning trusts for the three units that were fully funded to the regulatory minimum as of the acquisition date. Currently, Dominion believes that the amounts available in the trusts and their expected earnings will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs for the Millstone units, without any additional contributions to the trusts. The total estimated cost to decommission Dominions seven nuclear units is $3.0 billion based upon site specific studies completed in 2002. Dominion expects to perform new cost studies in 2006. For all units except Millstone Unit 1 and Unit 2, the current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when operating licenses expire. Millstone Unit 1 is not in service and will be monitored until decommissioning activities begin for the remaining Millstone units. The current operating licenses expire in the years detailed in the following table. During 2003, the NRC approved Dominions application for a 20 year life extension for the Surry and North Anna units and Dominion has filed a similar request for the Millstone units in 2004. Dominion expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2045 and the Millstone units during the period 2034 to 2057. Surry North Anna Millstone Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 3 Total (millions) NRC license expiration year 2032 2033 2038 2040 (1 ) 2015 2025 Current cost estimate (2002 dollars) $ 375 $ 368 $ 391 $ 363 $ 531 $ 486 $ 518 $ 3,032 Funds in trusts at December 31, 2003 283 277 231 219 282 292 288 1,872 2003 contributions to trusts 11 11 7 7 36 (1) Unit 1 ceased operations in 1998 before Dominions acquisition of Millstone. 15 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, Dominion and its subsidiaries are alleged to be in violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating to the environment, compliance plans or permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the construction or operation of facilities. Administrative proceedings may also be pending on these matters. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Dominion and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on Dominions financial position, liquidity or results of operations. See Regulation in Item 1. Business and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on rate matters and various regulatory proceedings to which Dominion is a party. Before being acquired by Dominion, Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. (Louis Dreyfus) was one of numerous defendants in a lawsuit consolidated and now pending in the 93rd Judicial District Court in Hildalgo County, Texas. The lawsuit alleges that gas wells and related pipeline facilities operated by Louis Dreyfus, and other facilities operated by other defendants, caused an underground hydrocarbon plume in McAllen, Texas. The plaintiffs claim that they have suffered damages, including property damage and lost profits, as a result of the alleged plume and seek compensation for these items. In July 1997, Jack Grynberg, an oil and gas entrepreneur, brought suit against CNG and several of its subsidiaries. The suit seeks damages for alleged fraudulent mismeasurement of gas volumes and underreporting of gas royalties from gas production taken from federal leases. The suit was consolidated with approximately 360 other cases in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming. Parts of Mr. Grynbergs claims were dismissed on the basis that they overlapped with Mr. Wrights claims, which are noted below. Mr. Grynberg has filed an appeal. The defendants plan to file a motion to dismiss in the spring of 2004. In April 1998, Harrold E. (Gene) Wright, an oil and gas entrepreneur, brought suit against Dominion Exploration & Production, Inc. (formerly known as CNG Producing Company), a subsidiary of CNG, alleging various fraudulent valuation practices in the payment of royalties on federal leases. Shortly after filing, this case was consolidated under the Federal Multidistrict Litigation rules with the Grynberg case noted above. A substantial portion of the claim against CNG Producing Company was resolved by settlement in late 2002, and the case was remanded back to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In connection with a Notice of Violation received by Virginia Power in 2000 from the EPA and related proceedings, the Virginia federal district court entered the final Consent Decree in October 2003 involving Virginia Power, the U.S. Department of Justice, the EPA and five states. Under the settlement, Virginia Power paid a $5 million civil penalty, agreed to fund $14 million for environmental projects and committed to improve air quality under the Consent Decree estimated to involve expenditures of $1.2 billion. Dominion has already incurred certain capital expenditures for environmental improvements at its coal fired stations in Virginia and West Virginia and has committed to additional measures in its current financial plans and capital budget to satisfy the requirements of the Consent Decree. As of December 31, 2003, Dominion had recognized a provision for the funding of the environmental projects, substantially all of which was recorded in 2000. In June 2002, Wiley Fisher, Jr. and John Fisher filed a purported class action lawsuit against Virginia Power and Dominion Telecom, Inc. (Dominion Telecom) in the U.S. District Court in Richmond, Virginia. The plaintiffs claim that Virginia Power and Dominion Telecom strung fiber optic cable across their land, along a Virginia Power electric transmission corridor without paying compensation. The plaintiffs are seeking damages for trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages from the defendants. The named plaintiffs purport to represent a class . . . consisting of all owners of land in North Carolina and Virginia, other than public streets or highways, that underlies Virginia Powers electric transmission lines and on or in which fiber optic cable has been installed. Discovery has begun and the court has granted a motion to add additional plaintiffs, Harmon T. Tomlinson, Jr. and Linda D. Tomlinson. In August 2003, the federal district court issued an order granting the plaintiffs motion for class certification. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit denied Dominions petitions for appeal on the class certification issue. The outcome of the proceeding, including an estimate as to any potential loss, cannot be predicted at this time. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 16 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Name and Age Business Experience Past Five Years Thos. E. Capps (68) Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from August 2000 to date; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Virginia Electric and Power Company from September 1997 to date; Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2004 to date; President of Dominion from August 2000 to December 2003; President of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2003 to December 2003; Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from January 2000 to August 2000; Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion from September 1995 to January 2000. Thomas F. Farrell, II (49) President and Chief Operating Officer of Dominion from January 2004 to date; President and Chief Operating Officer of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2004 to date; Executive Vice President of Dominion from March 1999 to December 2003; President and Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 2002 to December 2003; Executive Vice President of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to December 2003; Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from May 1999 to December 2002; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Virginia Electric and Power Company from July 1998 to April 1999. Thomas N. Chewning (58) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date; Executive Vice President of Dominion prior to May 1999. Jay L. Johnson (57) Executive Vice President of Dominion and President and Chief Executive Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 2002 to date; Senior Vice President, Business Excellence, Dominion Energy, Inc. from September 2000 to December 2002; Chief of Naval Operations, U.S. Navy, and member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1996 until July 2000. Duane C. Radtke (55) Executive Vice President of Dominion and Consolidated Natural Gas Company from April 2001 to date; President of Devon Energy International from August 2000 to April 2001; Executive Vice President Production of Santa Fe Snyder Corp. from May 1999 to August 2000; Senior Vice President Production of Santa Fe Energy Resources from April 1998 to May 1999. Mary C. Doswell (45) Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Dominion from January 2003 to date; President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion Resources Services, Inc. from January 2004 to date; President of Dominion Resources Services, Inc. from January 2003 to December 2003; Vice President Billing and Credit of Virginia Electric and Power Company from October 2001 to December 2002; Vice President Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to October 2001; General Manager Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from February 1999 to January 2000; Project Manager of Virginia Electric and Power Company from December 1997 to February 1999. Paul D. Koonce (44) Chief Executive Officer Energy of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2004 to date; Chief Executive Officer Transmission of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2003 to December 2003; Senior Vice President Portfolio Management of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to December 2002; Senior Vice President Commercial Operations of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 1999 to January 2000; Vice President of Regulated Commercial Operations of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 1999 to June 1999. 17 Table of Contents Name and Age Business Experience Past Five Years Mark F. McGettrick (46) President and Chief Executive Officer Generation of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2003 to date; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Dominion from January 2002 to December 2002; President of Dominion Resources Services, Inc. from October 2002 to January 2003; Senior Vice President Customer Service and Metering of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to December 2001; Vice President Customer Service and Marketing of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 1997 to January 2000. Eva S. Hardy (59) Senior Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Senior Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of Virginia Electric and Power Company from September 1997 to April 2000. G. Scott Hetzer (47) Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Dominion from May 1999 to date; Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Virginia Electric and Power Company and Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date; Vice President and Treasurer of Dominion from October 1997 to May 1999. James L. Sanderlin (62) Senior Vice President Law of Dominion from September 1999 to date; Senior Vice President Law of Consolidated Natural Gas Company from January 2000 to date. Partner in the law firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe LLP prior to September 1999. Steven A. Rogers (42) Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Dominion and Consolidated Natural Gas Company and Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer of Virginia Electric and Power Company from June 2000 to date; Controller of Virginia Electric and Power Company from January 2000 to May 2000; Controller of Dominion Energy, Inc. from September 1998 to June 2000. Any service listed for Virginia Electric and Power Company, Consolidated Natural Gas Company, Dominion Resources Services, Inc. and Dominion Energy, Inc. reflects service at a subsidiary of Dominion. 18 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Dominions common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31, 2003, there were approximately 175,000 registered shareholders, including approximately 84,000 certificate holders. The quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends is incorporated by reference from Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2003, Dominion issued 106 shares of common stock to a former employee as a deferred payment under a 1985 performance achievement plan. These shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The issuance of this stock did not involve a public offering, and is therefore exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Item 6. Selected Financial Data 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 (millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenue $ 12,078 $ 10,218 $ 10,558 $ 9,246 $ 5,520 Income from continuing operations before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 949 1,362 544 415 552 Loss on discontinued operations, net of taxes (642 ) Extraordinary item, net of taxes (255 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of taxes 11 21 Net income 318 1,362 544 436 297 Income from continuing operations before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per common share basic 2.99 4.85 2.17 1.85 1.55 Net income per common share basic 1.00 4.85 2.17 1.85 1.55 Income from continuing operations before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per common share diluted 2.98 4.82 2.15 1.85 1.48 Net income per common share diluted 1.00 4.82 2.15 1.85 1.48 Dividends paid per share 2.58 2.58 2.58 2.58 2.58 Total assets 44,186 39,998 36,431 30,683 19,132 Long term debt 15,776 12,060 12,119 10,101 6,936 Preferred securities of subsidiary trusts 1,397 1,132 385 385 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses the results of operations and general financial condition of Dominion. MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. The term Dominion is used throughout MD&A and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources, Inc.; one of Dominion Resources, Inc.s consolidated subsidiaries; or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Contents of MD&A The reader will find the following information in this MD&A: n Forward Looking Statements n Introduction n Accounting Matters n Dominions Results of Operations n Segment Results of Operations n Dominions Sources and Uses of Cash n Future Issues and Other Matters n Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management n Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements that May Affect Future Results 19 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements This report contains statements concerning Dominions expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In most cases, the reader can identify these forward looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, forecast, expect, believe, should, could, plan, may or other similar words. Dominion makes forward looking statements with full knowledge that risks and uncertainties exist that may cause actual results to be materially different from predicted results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward looking statements themselves. Additionally, other risks that may cause actual results to differ from predicted results are set forth in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results. Dominion bases its forward looking statements on managements beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. Dominion cautions the reader not to place undue reliance on its forward looking statements because the assumptions, beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may, and often do, materially differ from actual results. Dominion undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect developments occurring after the statement is made. Introduction Dominion is a diversified, fully integrated electric and gas holding company headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. Dominion concentrates its efforts largely in what Dominion refers to as the MAIN to Maine region. In the power industry, MAIN means the Mid America Interconnected Network, which comprises all of Illinois and portions of the states of Missouri, Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota. Under this strategy, Dominion focuses its efforts on the region stretching from MAIN, through its primary Mid Atlantic service areas in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina, and up through New York and New England. The MAIN to Maine region is home to approximately 40% of the nations demand for energy. Operating in all aspects of the energy supply chain positions Dominion to optimize the value of its energy portfolio and enhance its return on invested capital. Dominion has the capability to discover and produce gas, store it, sell it or use it to generate power; it can generate electricity to sell to customers in its retail markets or in wholesale transactions. These capabilities give Dominion the ability to produce and sell energy in whatever form it finds most useful and economic. Dominion also operates North Americas largest natural gas storage system, which gives it the flexibility to provide supply when it is most economically advantageous to do so. Maintaining and improving Dominions financial condition and flexibility is of paramount importance to its management. Important measures of an entitys financial strength and credit worthiness are the credit ratings assigned by Moodys and Standard & Poors. Dominion Resources, Inc., and its subsidiaries, Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), are each rated by those agencies and have ratings that are considered investment grade. Dominion has responded to recommendations by those agencies to reduce the percentage of debt in Dominions overall capital structure by focusing on minimizing incremental debt issuance, delaying certain capital projects and raising capital by issuing equity securities in proportion to debt so as to reduce overall debt to capital. Dominions businesses are managed along four primary operating segments: Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy, Dominion Delivery and Dominion Exploration & Production. These segments, and their composition, reflect changes made to Dominions management structure during the fourth quarter of 2003. The contributions to net income by Dominions primary operating segments are determined based on a measure of profit that executive management believes represents the segments core earnings. As a result, certain specific items attributable to those segments are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing segment performance or allocating resources among the segments. Those specific items are reported in the Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Generation includes the generation operations of Dominions electric utility and merchant fleet. The fuel mix used by these operations is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro and purchased power. Dominions strategy for its electric generation operations focuses on serving customers in the MAIN to Maine region. Its generation facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Pennsylvania and Ohio. In addition, Dominion expects to complete the acquisition of the Kewaunee power plant located in northeastern Wisconsin in the second half of 2004. Utility generation operations represent Dominion Generations primary source of revenue and cash flow. These operations are sensitive to external factors, primarily weather. Currently, revenue from utility operations largely reflects the capped rates charged to customers in Virginia, the majority of its utility customer base. Under Virginias current deregulation legislation, electric rates are capped through mid 2007. As rates are capped, changes in Dominion Generations operating costs, relative to costs recovered in the capped rates, will impact Dominions earnings. Dominion Generation has reduced costs by terminating certain long term power purchase agreements and, based on engineering studies, extended the estimated useful lives of generation assets, reducing the annual depreciation expense for those assets. Currently, legislators in Virginia are evaluating the future of electric deregulation in Virginia as well as the possibility of extending the capped rates period. 20 Table of Contents Prices received for electricity generated by its merchant fleet are market based, subjecting Dominion Generation to risks associated with recovering capital expenditures and absorbing variability in fuel costs. Generally, Dominion Generation manages these risks by entering into fixed price sales and purchase contracts. Variability in expenses for Dominion Generation relates primarily to the cost of labor and benefits, fuel consumed and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled outages. Dominion is currently permitted to seek rate recovery for fuel costs associated with utility operations. Dominion Energy includes the following operations: n A regulated interstate gas transmission pipeline and storage system, serving Dominions gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Midwest, the Mid Atlantic states and the Northeast; n A regulated electric transmission system principally located in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina; n Field services operations, representing aggregation of gas supply and related wholesale activities related to Appalachian and Canadian areas; n A liquefied natural gas unloading and storage facility in Maryland; n Certain gas production operations located in the Appalachian basin and n Dominion Energy Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse), which is responsible for energy trading, marketing, hedging and arbitrage activities. Dominion Energys revenue and cash flows are derived from both regulated and non regulated operations. Revenue and cash flow provided by regulated electric and gas transmission operations and the liquefied natural gas facility are based primarily on rates established by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Variability in revenue and cash flow provided by these businesses results primarily from changes in rates. Variability in expenses relates largely to operating and maintenance expenditures, including decisions regarding use of resources for operations and maintenance or capital related activities. Revenue and cash flow for Dominion Energys nonregulated businesses are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Dominion Energys nonregulated businesses use physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk. Certain hedging and trading activities may require cash deposits to satisfy margin requirements. In addition, reported earnings for this segment reflect changes in the fair value of certain derivatives; these values may change significantly from period to period. Variability in expenses for these nonregulated businesses relates largely to labor and benefits and the costs of purchased commodities for resale and payments under financially settled contracts. Dominion Delivery includes Dominions electric and gas distribution systems and customer service operations as well as retail energy marketing activities. Electric distribution operations serve customers in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina. Gas distribution operations serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales and transportation customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Retail energy marketing activities include the marketing of gas, electricity and related products and services to residential and small commercial customers in the Northeast and Midwest. Revenue and cash flow provided by electric and gas distribution operations are based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities. Variability in Dominion Deliverys revenue and cash flow relates largely to changes in volumes, which are primarily weather sensitive. For local gas distribution operations, revenue may vary based upon changes in levels of rate recovery for the costs of gas sold to customers. Such costs and recoveries generally offset and do not materially impact net income. Revenue from retail energy marketing operations may vary in connection with changes in weather and commodity prices as well as the acquisition and potential loss of customers. Variability in expenses results from changes in the cost of purchased gas, routine maintenance and repairs (including labor and benefits as well as decisions regarding the use of resources for operations and maintenance or capital related activities), and unplanned damage to property, such as the recent storm related damage caused by Hurricane Isabel. For gas distribution operations, Dominion is permitted to seek recovery of the cost of gas sold to customers. Dominion Exploration & Production includes Dominions gas and oil exploration, development and production operations. These operations are located in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico, and Western Canada. Dominion Exploration & Production operates a drilling program focused on low risk development drilling in several proven onshore regions of the United States and Western Canada, while also maintaining some exposure to higher risk exploration opportunities. Significant development drilling programs are currently underway in West Texas, the Appalachians and the Rocky Mountains where Dominion Exploration & Production holds sizable acreage positions and operational experience. While each region provides Dominion Exploration & Production with exploration opportunities, most exploratory drilling takes place in the Gulf Coast region, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Dominion Exploration & Production maintains an active and ongoing drilling program, participating in 922 net wells during 2003, and replacing approximately 160 percent of its 2003 production. Revenue and cash flow provided by exploration and production operations are based primarily on the production and sale of company owned natural gas and oil reserves. Variability in Dominion Exploration & Productions revenue and cash flow relates primarily to changes in commodity prices, which are market based, and volumes, which are impacted by numerous 21 Table of Contents factors including drilling success, timing of development projects, as well as external factors such as severe weather. Dominion manages commodity price volatility by hedging a substantial portion of its near term expected production. Variability in Dominion Exploration & Productions expenses relates primarily to changes in operating costs and production taxes, which tend to increase and decrease with changes in gas and oil prices and the prevailing cost environment. Commodity price changes place upward or downward pressure on related E&P service industry costs, while severance and property taxes move with changes in revenue. A changing price environment impacts both operating costs and the cost of acquiring, finding and developing natural gas and oil reserves. Corporate and Other includes: n The operations of Dominion Capital, Inc., a financial services subsidiary (DCI), which are being divested in accordance with an SEC order; n Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC (DFV) and its subsidiary, Dominion Telecom, Inc. (DTI), a telecommunications business that is being discontinued; n Dominions corporate and other operations, including its services company and n Specific items attributable to Dominions operating segments that are reported in Corporate and Other. Accounting Matters Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Dominion has identified the following accounting policies, including certain inherent estimates, that as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Accounting for derivative contracts at fair value Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. Accounting requirements for derivatives and hedging activities are complex; interpretation of these requirements by standard setting bodies is ongoing. Generally, derivatives are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. In addition, in 2002 and prior years, all energy trading contracts were reported at fair value. As a result of new accounting requirements beginning in 2003, non derivative trading contracts are no longer reported at fair value. Prior period financial statements were not restated for this change. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges are recorded in earnings. The measurement of fair value is based on actively quoted market prices, if available. Otherwise, Dominion seeks indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, measurement involves judgment and estimates. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies considered appropriate by Dominion management. For individual contracts, the use of different assumptions could have a material effect on the contracts estimated fair value. In addition, for hedges of forecasted transactions, Dominion must estimate the expected future cash flows of the forecasted transactions, as well as evaluate the probability of the occurrence and timing of such transactions. Changes in conditions or the occurrence of unforeseen events could affect the timing of recognition in earnings for changes in fair value of certain hedging derivatives. Use of estimates in goodwill impairment testing Dominion is required to test its goodwill for potential impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In performing the test, Dominion estimates the fair value of its reporting units by using discounted cash flow analyses and other valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings for peer group companies, as well as analyses of recent business combinations involving peer group companies. These calculations are dependent on many subjective factors, including managements estimate of future cash flows, the selection of appropriate discount and growth rates, and the selection of peer group companies and recent transactions. The cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made. However, estimates of future cash flows are highly uncertain by nature and may vary significantly from actual results. The underlying assumptions and estimates involved in preparing these fair value calculations could change significantly from period to period. Modifications to any of these assumptions, particularly changes in discount rates and changes in growth rates inherent in managements estimate of future cash flows, could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Substantially all of Dominions goodwill is allocated to its Generation, Energy, Delivery and Exploration & Production reporting units. If the estimates of future cash flows used in the 2003 annual test had been 10% lower, the resulting discounted cash flows would have been greater than the carrying values of each of those reporting units, still indicating no impairment was present. Use of estimates in long lived asset impairment testing Impairment testing for long lived assets and intangible assets with definite lives is required when circumstances indicate those assets may be impaired. In performing the impairment test, Dominion would estimate the future cash flows associated with individual assets or groups of assets. Impairment must be recognized when the undiscounted estimated future cash flows 22 Table of Contents are less than the related assets carrying amount. In those circumstances, the asset must be written down to its fair value, which, in the absence of market price information, may be estimated as the present value of its expected future net cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. In 2003, reflecting a significant revision in long term expectations for potential growth in telecommunications service revenue, Dominion approved a strategy to sell its interest in the telecommunications business. In connection with this change in strategy, Dominion tested the network assets to be sold for impairment, using the revised long term expectations for potential growth. Dominions assets were determined to be substantially impaired and were written down to fair value. Asset retirement obligations Dominion recognizes liabilities for the expected cost of retiring tangible long lived assets for which a legal obligation exists. These asset retirement obligations (AROs) are recognized at fair value as incurred, and are capitalized as part of the cost of the related tangible long lived assets. In the absence of quoted market prices, Dominion estimates the fair value of its AROs using present value techniques, in which estimates of future cash flows associated with retirement activities are discounted using its credit adjusted risk free rate. AROs currently reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet were measured during a period of historically low interest rates. The impact on measurements of new AROs, using different rates in the future, may be significant. A significant portion of Dominions AROs relates to the future decommissioning of its nuclear facilities. At December 31, 2003, nuclear decommissioning AROs totaled $1.3 billion, which represented approximately 80% of Dominions total AROs. Based on their significance, the following discussion of critical assumptions inherent in determining the fair value of AROs relates to those associated with Dominions nuclear decommissioning obligations. Dominion obtains from third party experts periodic site specific base year cost studies in order to estimate the nature, cost and timing of planned decommissioning activities for its utility nuclear plants. Dominion uses internal cost studies for its merchant nuclear facility based on similar methods. These cost studies are based on relevant information available at the time they are performed; however, estimates of future cash flows for extended periods are by nature highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. In addition, these cost estimates are dependent on subjective factors, including the selection of cost escalation rates, which Dominion considers to be a critical assumption. Dominion determines cost escalation rates, which represent projected cost increases over time, due to both general inflation and increases in the cost of specific decommissioning activities, for each of its nuclear facilities. The weighted average cost escalation used by Dominion was 3.18%. The use of alternative rates would have been material to the liabilities recognized. For example, had Dominion increased the cost escalation rate by 0.5% to 3.68%, the amount recognized as of December 31, 2003 for its AROs related to nuclear decommissioning would have been $256 million higher. Employee benefit plans Dominion sponsors noncontributory defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for eligible active employees, retirees and qualifying dependents. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent, in part, on historical information such as employee demographics, the level of contributions made to the plans and earnings on plan assets. Assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, discount rates applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs, also have a significant impact on employee benefit costs. The impact on pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations associated with changes in these factors is generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income over the remaining average service period of plan participants rather than immediately. The selection of discount rates and expected long term rates of return on plan assets are critical assumptions. Dominion determines the expected long term rates of return on plan assets for pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans by using a combination of: n Historical return analysis to determine expected future risk premiums; n Forward looking return expectations derived from the yield on long term bonds and the price earnings ratios of major stock market indices; n Expected inflation and risk free interest rate assumptions and n The types of investments expected to be held by the plans. Assisted by an independent actuary, management develops assumptions, which are then compared to the forecasts of other independent investment advisors to ensure reasonableness. An internal committee selects the final assumptions. Discount rates are determined from analyses performed by a third party actuarial firm of AA/Aa rated bonds with cash flows matching the expected payments to be made under Dominions plans. 23 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the effect of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above: Increase in 2004 NetPeriodic Cost ActuarialAssumption Change inAssumption PensionBenefits OtherPostretirementBenefits (millions) Discount rate (0.25 %) $ 12 $ 6 Rate of return on plan assets (0.25 %) 10 1 Healthcare cost trend rate 1 % N/A 22 Accounting for regulated operations Methods of allocating costs to accounting periods for operations subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation may differ from accounting methods generally applied by nonregulated companies. When the timing of cost recovery prescribed by regulatory authorities differs from the timing of expense recognition used for accounting purposes, Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements may recognize a regulatory asset for expenditures that otherwise would be expensed. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenue associated with certain costs that will be recovered from customers through rates. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future reductions in revenue associated with expected customer credits through rates or amounts collected from customers for expenditures not yet incurred. Management makes assumptions regarding the probability of regulatory asset recovery through future rates approved by applicable regulatory authorities. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of regulatory assets is determined to be less than probable, they would be expensed in the period such assessment is made. See Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for gas and oil operations Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the SEC. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depreciated using a unit of production method. The depreciable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved gas and oil reserves, as well as capitalized asset retirement costs, net of projected salvage values. The calculations under this accounting method are dependent on engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities and estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves. Proved reserves, and the cash flows related to these reserves, are estimated based on a combination of historical data and expected future activity. Actual reserve quantities and development expenditures may differ from the forecasted amounts. In addition, Dominion has significant investments in unproved properties, which are initially excluded from the depreciable base. Until the properties are evaluated, a ratable portion of the capitalized costs is periodically reclassified to the depreciable base, determined on a property by property basis, over terms of underlying leases. Once a property has been evaluated, any remaining capitalized costs are then transferred to the depreciable base. Capitalized costs in the depreciable base are subject to a ceiling test prescribed by the SEC. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved gas and oil reserves assuming period end hedge adjusted prices. Dominion performs the ceiling test quarterly, on a country by country basis, and would recognize asset impairments to the extent that total capitalized costs exceed the ceiling. Any impairment of excess gas and oil property costs over the ceiling is charged to operations. Given the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, it is possible that Dominions estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves could change in the near term. If natural gas or oil prices have declined as of the date of the ceiling test, or if Dominion revises its estimates of the quantities or timing of future production from its proved reserves, recognition of natural gas and oil property impairments could occur. See Notes 2 and 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for retained interests from securitizations Securitizations involve selling loans to qualifying unconsolidated trusts in exchange for cash and retained interests. Retained interests may include unsecured debt of the trust or retained interests in the transferred loans. Dominion holds retained interests from mortgage and commercial loans securitized in prior years and classifies them as available for sale investments, carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Quarterly, Dominion evaluates the key assumptions relating to valuing the retained interests. Those key assumptions include: loan prepayment speeds, credit losses, forward yield curves and discount rates. Using a published forward yield curve, cash flows, net of adjustments for expected credit losses and loan prepayments, are discounted to determine the estimated fair value of the retained interests. Loan prepayment speeds and credit loss assumptions are based on actual historical results and future estimates. The discount rate is risk adjusted and is periodically compared to industry averages and recent or similar transactions for reasonableness. Changes in interest rates will result in a change in the forward yield curve and can result in a change in the assumed amount of loan prepayments. Changes in general economic conditions may impact actual credit losses, thus impacting the credit loss assumption used in Dominions quarterly evaluation. Income from the residual interests is reported as other revenue. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of impairment charges recorded in 2003, 2002 and 2001. 24 Table of Contents Newly Adopted Accounting Standards in 2003 During 2003, Dominion was required to adopt several new accounting standards which affect the comparability of its Consolidated Financial Statements. The requirements of those standards are discussed in Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is presented to provide an understanding of the financial statement impacts of those standards when comparing the 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to prior years. SFAS No. 143 Adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, on January 1, 2003, affected the comparability of Dominions 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to those of prior years as follows: n Recognition of asset retirement obligations of $1.5 billion compared to a liability of $1.6 billion that had been previously recorded for nuclear decommissioning; n Recognition of $350 million of capitalized asset retirement costs in property, plant and equipment and a $90 million increase in accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, representing the depreciation of such costs through December 31, 2002; n Beginning in 2003, accretion of the AROs, including nuclear decommissioning, is reported in other operations and maintenance expense. Previously, expenses associated with the provision for nuclear decommissioning were reported in depreciation expense and in other expense, as described below and n Beginning in 2003, realized and unrealized earnings of trusts available for funding decommissioning activities at Dominions utility nuclear plants are recorded in other income and other comprehensive income, as appropriate. Previously, as permitted by regulatory authorities, these earnings were recorded in other income with an offsetting charge to expense, also recorded in other income, for the accretion of the decommissioning liability. EITF 02 3 and EITF 03 11 The adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities and the related EITF 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in Issue No. 02 3, changed the timing of recognition in earnings for certain Clearinghouse energy related contracts, as well as the financial statement presentation of gains and losses associated with energy related contracts. The Consolidated Statements of Income for 2002 and 2001 were not restated. Prior to 2003, all energy trading contracts, including non derivative contracts, were recorded at fair value with changes in fair value and settlements reported in revenue on a net basis. Specifically, adopting EITF 02 3 and EITF 03 11 affected the comparability of Dominions 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to those of prior years as follows: n For derivative contracts not held for trading purposes that involve physical delivery of commodities, unrealized gains and losses and settlements on sales contracts are presented in revenue, while unrealized gains and losses and settlements on purchase contracts are reported in expenses and n Non derivative energy related contracts, previously subject to fair value accounting under prior accounting guidance, are no longer subject to fair value accounting. Dominion recognizes revenue or expense on a gross basis at the time of contract performance, settlement or termination. FIN 46R Upon adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, (FIN 46R) on December 31, 2003 with respect to special purpose entities, Dominion was required to consolidate certain variable interest lessor entities through which Dominion had financed and leased several new power generation projects, as well as its corporate headquarters and aircraft. As a result, the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003 reflects an additional $644 million in net property, plant and equipment and deferred charges and $688 million of related debt. In addition, under FIN 46R, Dominion reports its junior subordinated notes held by five capital trusts as long term debt, rather than the trust preferred securities issued by those trusts. At December 31, 2002, Dominion consolidated the trusts and reported the trust preferred securities on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. 25 Table of Contents Dominions Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 NetIncome DilutedEPS NetIncome DilutedEPS NetIncome DilutedEPS (millions, except per share amounts) Dominion Generation $ 508 $ 1.59 $ 561 $ 1.98 $ 511 $ 2.02 Dominion Energy 350 1.10 268 0.95 268 1.06 Dominion Delivery 453 1.42 422 1.49 311 1.23 Dominion Exploration & Production 415 1.30 380 1.34 320 1.27 Primary operating segments 1,726 5.41 1,631 5.76 1,410 5.58 Corporate and Other (1,408 ) (4.41 ) (269 ) (0.94 ) (866 ) (3.43 ) Consolidated $ 318 $ 1.00 $ 1,362 $ 4.82 $ 544 $ 2.15 Overview 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion earned $1.00 per diluted share on net income of $318 million, a decrease of $3.82 per diluted share and $1,044 million. The per share decrease includes approximately $0.13 of share dilution, reflecting an increase in the average number of common shares outstanding during 2003. The combined net income contribution of Dominions primary operating segments increased $95 million in 2003. This increase largely reflects the benefits of higher natural gas prices during 2003 on sales of Dominions gas and oil production as well as margins associated with gas trading activities. See Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about Dominions operating segments. This increased contribution by the operating segments was more than offset by significant specific charges recognized in 2003 and reported in the Corporate and Other segment, including: n $750 million of after tax losses associated with Dominions telecommunications business, which is being discontinued; n $122 million of after tax incremental expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel; n $96 million of after tax charges for DCI asset impairments; n $69 million of after tax charges for asset impairments related to certain investments held for sale; n $104 million of after tax charges associated with the termination of long term power purchase agreements and the restructuring of power sales agreements and n $16 million of after tax severance costs for workforce reductions. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion earned $4.82 per diluted share on net income of $1.4 billion, an increase of $818 million and $2.67 per diluted share compared to 2001. Per share amounts also reflect approximately $0.57 of share dilution, due to an increase in the average number of common shares outstanding during 2002. The combined net income contribution of Dominions primary operating segments increased $222 million in 2002. These results largely reflect the impact of favorable weather and customer growth on utility operations and the inclusion of a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition. In addition to the increased contribution by the operating segments, the increase in net income included the effect of discontinuing the amortization of goodwill in 2002 ($95 million) and the impact of significant specific charges recognized in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. These items were reported in the Corporate and Other segment and included: n $208 million of after tax losses from the impairment of DCI financial assets and the sale of a DCI subsidiary; n A $136 million after tax charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts; n A $97 million after tax charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron and n A $68 million after tax charge for restructuring activities. Analysis of Consolidated Operations Presented below are selected amounts related to Dominions results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales $ 4,876 $ 4,856 $ 4,619 Regulated gas sales 1,258 876 1,409 Nonregulated electric sales 1,130 1,017 1,022 Nonregulated gas sales 1,718 778 1,073 Gas transportation and storage 740 705 702 Gas and oil production 1,503 1,334 1,057 Other 853 652 676 Operating Expenses Electric fuel and energy purchases, net 1,667 1,447 1,369 Purchased electric capacity 607 691 680 Purchased gas, net 2,175 1,159 1,822 Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases 468 159 219 Restructuring and other acquisition related costs (8 ) 105 Other operations and maintenance 2,908 2,198 2,938 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,216 1,258 1,245 Other taxes 476 429 395 Other income (loss) (40 ) 103 126 Interest and related charges 975 945 997 Income tax expense 597 $ 681 $ 370 Loss from discontinued operations (642 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 11 26 Table of Contents An analysis of Dominions results of operations for 2003 compared to 2002 and 2002 compared to 2001 follows. 2003 vs. 2002 Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales revenue increased less than 1% to $4.9 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $54 million increase from customer growth associated with new customer connections; n A $42 million increase from higher fuel rate recoveries. Fuel rate recoveries were generally offset by a comparable increase in fuel expense and did not materially affect net income and n A $103 million decrease associated with milder weather. Regulated gas sales revenue increased 44% to $1.3 billion, primarily due to: n Recovery of higher gas prices in rates ($289 million) and n Comparably colder weather in the first and fourth quarters of 2003 ($79 million), reflecting more heating degree days in 2003. The increase in regulated gas sales revenue was largely offset by a comparable increase in purchased gas expense. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased 11% to $1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $77 million increase in merchant generation revenue, reflecting higher volumes ($59 million) and higher prices ($18 million). The increase in volumes can be attributed to fewer outage days at the Millstone Power Station in 2003 and a full years sales from generating units placed into service during 2002; n A $76 million increase in retail energy sales, primarily as a result of customer growth, including the acquisition of new customers previously served by other energy companies during 2003 and n A $43 million decrease in Clearinghouse electric revenue, net of applicable purchases, due to unfavorable changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for trading purposes and the impact of adopting EITF 02 3, partially offset by increased margins. Nonregulated gas sales revenue increased 121% to $1.7 billion, primarily reflecting: n An $82 million increase in revenue from retail energy marketing operations, reflecting higher prices ($78 million) and higher volumes ($4 million); n A $659 million increase in revenue from field services operations, reflecting higher prices ($467 million) and higher volumes ($192 million) and n A $208 million increase in Clearinghouse gas revenue, net of applicable purchases, due to higher margins, favorable changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for trading purposes and the impact of adopting EITF 02 3. The increase included a $54 million increase associated with the economic hedges, described further in the discussion of Dominion Energys results. Gas and oil production revenue increased 13% to $1.5 billion primarily due to higher average realized prices for gas and oil. It also includes $43 million of revenue recognized related to deliveries under a volumetric production payment transaction. Other revenue increased 31% to $853 million, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $49 million increase in coal sales revenue; n A $115 million increase, resulting from a change in the classification of coal purchases from other revenue to expense under EITF 02 3 beginning in 2003; n $94 million of sales of emissions credits that began in 2003; n A $26 million increase in sales of extracted products and n An $81 million decrease in revenue associated with Dominion financial services operations, reflecting the winding down under Dominions divestiture strategy. Operating Expenses and Other Items Electric fuel and energy purchases expense increased 15% to $1.7 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $154 million increase associated with nonregulated energy marketing operations, primarily resulting from higher volumes purchased and the reclassification of certain purchase contracts after the implementation of EITF 02 3 and n A $68 million increase related to regulated utility operations, including $42 million associated with rate recovery in 2003 revenue and the recognition of $14 million of previously deferred fuel costs that will not be recovered under the settlement of the Virginia jurisdictional fuel rate case. Purchased electric capacity expense decreased 12% to $607 million, reflecting scheduled rate reductions on certain non utility generation supply contracts ($54 million) and lower purchases of capacity for utility operations ($30 million). Purchased gas expense increased 88% to $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $647 million increase associated with field services operations, reflecting higher prices ($459 million) and higher volumes ($188 million) and n A $363 million increase associated with regulated gas operations discussed above in Regulated gas sales revenue. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases expense increased 194% to $468 million, reflecting primarily the reclassification of certain purchase contracts for transportation, storage, coal and emissions allowances after the adoption of EITF 02 3. Other operations and maintenance expense rose 32% to $2.9 billion, primarily reflecting the following specific increases: n Incremental restoration expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel ($197 million); 27 Table of Contents n Cost of terminating power purchase contracts used in electric utility operations ($105 million); n Asset and goodwill impairments associated with DCIs financial services operations ($108 million); n Goodwill impairment associated with the purchase of the remaining interest in the telecommunications joint venture held by another party ($60 million); n A charge for the restructuring of certain electric sales contracts recorded as derivative assets ($64 million); n Accretion expense for asset retirement obligations ($86 million); n Decrease in net pension credits and an increase in other postretirement benefit costs ($87 million) and n Expenses associated with nuclear outages for refueling in 2003 ($13 million). These increases were partially offset by a decrease attributable to lower outage costs at Millstone ($28 million). Other taxes increased 11% to $476 million, primarily due to higher severance taxes and gross receipts taxes, as well as the effect of a favorable resolution of sales and use tax issues in 2002. Such benefits were not recognized in 2003. Other income decreased 138% to a net loss of $40 million, which included the following items: n $57 million of costs associated with the acquisition of DFV senior notes; n $27 million for the reallocation of equity losses between Dominion and the minority interest owner of DFV; n $62 million for the impairment of certain equity method investments and n A $32 million increase in net realized losses associated with nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments. Partially offsetting these reductions to other income was an increase of $28 million, reflecting equity losses on Dominions investment in DFV in 2002; DFV was consolidated beginning in the first quarter of 2003. In 2003, the operating losses of DFVs subsidiary, DTI, were classified in discontinued operations. Income taxes Dominions effective tax rate increased 5.3% to 38.6% for 2003. The increase primarily resulted from the expiration of nonconventional fuel credits beginning in 2003, an increase in the valuation allowance related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the telecommunications investment and federal loss carryforwards at CNG International and DCI that are not expected to be utilized, partially offset by a reduction in Canadian tax rates applied to deferred tax balances. Loss from discontinued operations reflects the results of operations of Dominions telecommunications business, which is classified as held for sale. The loss includes the following: n Impairment of network assets of $566 million. Dominion has not recognized any deferred tax benefits related to the impairment charges, since realization of tax benefits will be dependent upon Dominions future tax profile and taxable earnings. In addition, Dominion also increased the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets recognized by its telecommunications investment, resulting in a $48 million increase in deferred income tax expense; and n DTI operating losses of $28 million. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles During 2003 Dominion was required to adopt several new accounting standards, resulting in a net after tax gain of $11 million which included the following: n A $180 million after tax gain (SFAS No. 143), partially offset by; n A $67 million after tax loss (EITF 02 3); n A $75 million after tax loss (Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. C20) and n A $27 million after tax loss (FIN 46R). 2002 vs. 2001 Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales revenue increased 5% to $4.9 billion, primarily due to: n Favorable weather conditions ($195 million), reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days in 2002; n Customer growth ($60 million) and n Fuel rate recoveries ($65 million), which were generally offset in fuel expense and do not materially affect net income. These increases were partially offset by other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Regulated gas sales revenue decreased 38% to $876 million, reflecting $550 million for lower gas cost recoveries attributable to lower prices and customer migration, partially offset by the impact of slightly colder weather and other factors. The decline was offset by a corresponding $491 million decrease in purchased gas expense, reflecting the matching of purchased gas costs and gas cost recoveries in rates, and increased gas transportation service revenue. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased 1% to $1.0 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $21 million decrease in sales revenue from Dominions merchant generation fleet, reflecting a $201 million decline due to lower prices partially offset by sales from assets acquired and constructed in 2002 and the inclusion of Millstone operations for all of 2002; n A $74 million decrease in revenue from the wholesale marketing of utility generation. Due to the higher demand of utility service territory customers during 2002, less production from utility plant generation was available for profitable sale in the wholesale market; n A $71 million increase in revenue from retail energy sales, reflecting primarily customer growth over the prior year and n A $33 million increase in Clearinghouse electric revenue, net of applicable trading purchases, reflecting the effect of favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher margins. 28 Table of Contents Nonregulated gas sales revenue decreased 28% to $778 million, primarily reflecting: n A $261 million decrease in sales by Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations, reflecting to a large extent declining prices and n A $51 million decrease in Clearinghouse gas revenue, net of applicable trading purchases, due to unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower overall margins. Those losses were partially offset by contributions from higher trading volumes in gas and oil markets. The decrease included a $70 million revenue decrease associated with the economic hedges. Gas and oil production revenue increased 26% to $1.3 billion, reflecting higher overall production as a result of the inclusion of a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition and Dominions ongoing drilling programs. Average realized gas and oil prices, including the effects of hedging, decreased for the comparative years. Operating Expenses and Other Items Purchased gas expense decreased 36% to $1.2 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $196 million decrease associated with field services and gas transmission operations, primarily reflecting lower prices and n A $489 million decrease associated with regulated gas operations discussed above in Regulated gas sales revenue. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases expense decreased 28% to $159 million, primarily reflecting comparably lower levels of rate recoveries of certain costs of transmission operations in the current year period. The difference between actual expenses and amounts recovered in the period are deferred pending future rate adjustments. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased 25% to $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting the following expenses incurred in 2001 that did not recur in 2002: n A $281 million charge for impairments of certain financial assets held by DCI; n $151 million charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron; n A $220 million charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts and n A $40 million loss on the sale of assets by DCI. Depreciation expense increased 1% to $1.3 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $95 million decrease resulting from discontinued amortization of goodwill effective January 1, 2002; n A $58 million decrease related to the extension of estimated useful lives of most fossil fuel stations and electric transmission and distribution properties in 2002 and nuclear properties in 2001; n $138 million of additional depreciation, depletion and amortization expense recognized in connection with a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition and n A $28 million increase associated with other new plant additions. Other taxes increased 9% to $429 million, primarily due to higher severance taxes associated with a full year of Louis Dreyfus operations. In addition, Dominion incurred higher property taxes on new asset additions, partially offset by lower gross receipts taxes, primarily reflecting lower regulated gas sales revenue. Other income decreased 18% to $103 million, primarily reflecting $27 million of equity losses from DFV. Income taxes Dominions effective income tax rate decreased, reflecting the net $33 million effect of including certain subsidiaries in Dominions consolidated state income tax returns. In addition, the effective tax rate decreased for foreign earnings, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization for book purposes and other factors. Outlook Dominion Dominion believes its operating businesses will provide growth in net income on a per share basis, including the impact of higher expected average shares outstanding, in 2004 and 2005. Growth factors for 2004 include: n Potential increase in regulated electric sales, as compared to 2003, assuming Dominions utility service territories experience a return to normal weather in 2004; n Continued growth in utility customers; n Reduced electric capacity expenses, resulting from terminated contracts; n Lower interest expense as a result of refinanced debt; n Higher expected levels of gas and oil production as a result of Devils Tower and Front Runner becoming operational; n Improved contributions from Millstones operations, resulting from expected higher capacity factors and favorable sales prices; n Higher contribution from Cove Point operations; n Expected Six Sigma benefits and n Specific costs and reductions to earnings in 2003 that are not expected to recur in 2004, including: n Lost revenue due to Hurricane Isabel; n The Virginia fuel rate case settlement and n Costs associated with refinancing callable debt. For 2004, the growth factors will be partially offset by: n Decreased pension credits and increased other postretirement benefit costs; n Higher expected operating expenses for gas and oil production and n Normalization of Clearinghouse contribution. Growth factors for 2005 include: n Gas and oil production growth, reflecting a full year of Devils Tower and Front Runner operations; n A full year of operations of the Kewaunee power plant, expected to be acquired in the second half of 2004; n Continued growth in utility customers; n Expanded operations of Cove Point and n Expected Six Sigma benefits. 29 Table of Contents For 2005, the growth factors are expected to be partially offset by: n Increased interest expense and n Inflation and other factors. Based on these projections, Dominion estimates that cash flow from operations will increase in 2004, as compared to 2003. Management believes this increase, coupled with reductions in discretionary and developmental capital expenditures previously planned for power generation and gas and oil exploration and production projects, will provide sufficient cash flow to maintain or grow Dominions current dividend to common shareholders. Segment Results of Operations Dominion Generation Dominion Generation includes the generation operations of Dominions electric utility and merchant fleet. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 508 $ 561 $ 511 EPS contribution $ 1.59 $ 1.98 $ 2.02 Electricity supplied (million mwhrs) 105 101 95 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Generations operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase (Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Revenue reallocation $ (57 ) $ (0.20 ) Regulated electric sales: Weather (42 ) (0.15 ) $ 82 $ 0.32 Customer growth 23 0.08 25 0.10 Merchant generation margins 18 0.06 (122 ) (0.48 ) Capacity expenses 29 0.10 8 0.03 Fuel settlement (9 ) (0.03 ) Utility outages (13 ) (0.04 ) 11 0.04 Other (2 ) 46 0.19 Share dilution (0.21 ) (0.24 ) Change in net income contribution $ (53 ) $ (0.39 ) $ 50 $ (0.04 ) 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Generations net income contribution decreased $53 million over 2002, primarily reflecting: n A change in the allocation of electric utility base rate revenue beginning in 2003 among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery; n A decrease in regulated electric sales due to comparably milder summer weather, resulting in a decrease in cooling degree days in 2003, partially offset by an increase in heating degree days in 2003; n An increase in regulated electric sales due to customer growth in the electric franchise service area, primarily reflecting an increase in new residential customers; n Scheduled decreases in capacity expenses under certain power purchase agreements; n Recognition of previously deferred fuel costs in connection with the Virginia fuel rate settlement and n Increased utility outage expenses, reflecting the refueling activities at the utility nuclear facilities in 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Generations net income contribution rose $50 million over 2001, primarily reflecting: n An increase in regulated electric sales due to comparably warmer summer weather, resulting in an increase in cooling degree days; n An increase in regulated electric sales due to customer growth in the electric franchise service area, primarily reflecting an increase in new residential customers and n A decrease in merchant generation sales primarily as a result of lower prices in 2002, partially offset by a full year of Millstone operations. Dominion Energy Dominion Energy includes Dominions electric transmission, natural gas transmission pipeline and storage businesses, certain natural gas production, as well as Clearinghouse (energy trading and marketing) and field services (aggregation of gas supply and related wholesale activities) operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 350 $ 268 $ 268 EPS contribution $ 1.10 $ 0.95 $ 1.06 Gas transportation throughput (bcf) 612 597 553 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Energys operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase(Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Clearinghouse $ 16 $ 0.06 $ (4 ) $ (0.02 ) Economic hedges 33 0.12 (43 ) (0.17 ) Electric transmission operations 11 0.04 16 0.06 Cove Point operations 9 0.03 Revenue reallocation 7 0.02 Interest (5 ) (0.02 ) 6 0.02 Other 11 0.04 25 0.11 Share dilution (0.14 ) (0.11 ) Change in net income contribution $ 82 $ 0.15 $ (0.11 ) 30 Table of Contents 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Energys net income rose $82 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n An increase in the contribution of Clearinghouse operations, reflecting a $43 million increase in margins on settled contracts, partially offset by a $27 million decrease in net mark to market gains on derivative contracts; n An increase attributable to a reduction in net losses on the economic hedges of Dominion Exploration & Production gas production described in Selected Information Energy Trading Activities below; n A change in the allocation of electric base rate revenue among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery effective January 1, 2003; n An increase in electric transmission contribution due to customer growth and other factors, partially offset by weather and n The operations of Cove Point, which was reactivated during 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Energys net income contribution did not change compared to 2001, and reflected: n A decrease in the contribution of Clearinghouse operations, reflecting a $54 million decrease in net mark to market gains on derivative contracts, partially offset by a $47 million increase in margins on settled contracts; n Net losses associated with the economic hedges of Dominion Exploration & Production gas production; n An increase in electric transmission contribution, reflecting the impact of customer growth and favorable weather conditions as well as reduced depreciation expense, resulting from the extension of estimated useful lives of transmission assets and n A decrease in interest expense, resulting primarily from lower interest rates. Selected Information Energy Trading Activities As previously described, Dominion Energy manages Dominions energy trading, hedging and arbitrage activities through the Clearinghouse. Dominion believes these operations complement its integrated energy businesses and facilitate its risk management activities. As part of these operations, the Clearinghouse enters into contracts for purchases and sales of energy related commodities, including natural gas, electricity, and oil. Settlements of contracts may require physical delivery of the underlying commodity or cash settlement. The Clearinghouse enters into contracts with the objective of benefiting from changes in prices. For example, after entering into a contract to purchase a commodity, the Clearinghouse typically enters into a sales contract, or a combination of sales contracts, with quantities and delivery or settlement terms that are identical or very similar to those of the purchase contract. When the purchase and sales contracts are settled either by physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by net cash settlement, the Clearinghouse may receive a net cash margin (a realized gain), or may pay a net cash margin (a realized loss). Clearinghouse management continually monitors its contract positions, considering location and timing of delivery or settlement for each energy commodity in relation to market price activity, seeking arbitrage opportunities. In addition, the Clearinghouse held a portfolio of financial derivative instruments to manage Dominions price risk associated with a portion of its anticipated sales of 2003 natural gas production that had not been considered in the hedging activities of the Dominion Exploration & Production segment (economic hedges). For the year ended December 31, 2003, Dominion Energy recognized a net loss of $10 million on the economic hedges. As anticipated, Dominion Exploration & Production sold sufficient volumes of natural gas in 2003 at market prices, which, when combined with the settlement of the economic hedges, resulted in a range of prices for those sales contemplated by the risk management strategy. A summary of the changes in the unrealized gains and losses recognized for Dominions energy related derivative instruments held for trading purposes, including the economic hedges, during 2003 follows: Amount (millions) Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2002 $ 170 Reclassification of contracts adoption of EITF 02 3: Non derivative energy contracts (110 ) Derivative energy contracts, not held for trading purposes (81 ) (21 ) Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 41 Net unrealized gain at inception of contracts initiated during the period Changes in valuation techniques Other changes in fair value 13 Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2003 $ 33 The balance of net unrealized gains and losses recognized for Dominions energy related derivative instruments held for trading purposes, including the economic hedges at December 31, 2003, is summarized in the following table based on the approach used to determine fair value and contract settlement or delivery dates: Maturity Based on Contract Settlementor Delivery Date(s) Source of Fair Value Less than1year 1 2years 2 3years 3 5years InExcessof 5years Total (millions) Actively quoted(1) $ (14 ) $ 24 $ 4 $ 14 Other external sources(2) 10 6 $ 3 19 Models and other valuation methods(3) Total $ (14 ) $ 34 $ 10 $ 3 $ 33 (1) Exchange traded and over the counter contracts. (2) Values based on prices from over the counter broker activity and industry services and, where applicable, conventional option pricing models. (3) Values based on Dominions estimate of future commodity prices when information from external sources is not available and use of internally developed models, reflecting option pricing theory, discounted cash flow concepts, etc. 31 Table of Contents Dominion Delivery Dominion Delivery includes Dominions electric and gas distribution and customer service business, as well as retail energy marketing operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 453 $ 422 $ 311 EPS contribution $ 1.42 $ 1.49 $ 1.23 Electricity delivered (million mwhrs) 75 75 72 Gas throughput (bcf) 373 364 357 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Deliverys operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase (Decrease) Increase (Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Revenue reallocation $ 50 $ 0.18 Customer growth utility operations 10 0.03 $ 10 $ 0.04 Weather (5 ) (0.02 ) 50 0.20 Interest expense 14 0.06 Income taxes (9 ) (0.03 ) 18 0.07 Other (15 ) (0.05 ) 19 0.07 Share dilution (0.18 ) (0.18 ) Change in net income contribution $ 31 $ (0.07 ) $ 111 $ 0.26 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Deliverys net income contribution rose $31 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n A change in the allocation of electric base rate revenue among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery effective January 1, 2003; n Customer growth in the electric and gas franchise service area, primarily reflecting new residential electric customers; n A decrease in regulated electric sales due to comparably milder weather in Dominions electric utility service territories offset by the increase in regulated gas sales due to comparably colder weather in Dominions gas utility service territories; n A decrease in pension credits and an increase in other postretirement benefit costs and n The deferral of 2003 bad debt expenses as regulatory assets, pending future recovery under a bad debt rider approved by the Public Utility Commission of Ohio, effective January 1, 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Deliverys net income contribution rose $111 million over 2001, primarily reflecting: n Customer growth in the electric and gas franchise service area, primarily reflecting new residential electric customers; n Comparably warmer weather, resulting in increased summer sales in Dominions electric service territories and comparably colder winter weather, resulting in increased sales in both electric and gas service territories; n A decrease in interest expense, resulting primarily from lower interest rates and n A decrease in the effective income tax rate for reasons described for Dominion on a consolidated basis. Dominion Exploration & Production Dominion Exploration & Production manages Dominions gas and oil exploration, development and production business. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 415 $ 380 $ 320 EPS contribution $ 1.30 $ 1.34 $ 1.27 Gas production (bcf) 384 385 283 Oil production (million bbls) 9 10 7 Average realized prices with hedging results:(1) Gas (per mcf)(2) $ 3.95 $ 3.40 $ 3.80 Oil (per bbl) 24.29 23.28 23.42 Average prices without hedging results: Gas (per mcf)(2) 4.99 3.03 3.87 Oil (per bbl) 29.82 24.44 23.53 DD&A (per mcfe) $ 1.20 $ 1.12 $ 1.08 Average production (lifting) cost(per mcfe) 0.80 0.60 0.65 (1) Excludes the effects of the economic hedges discussed in the operating results of Dominion Energy under Selected Information Energy Trading Activities. (2) Excludes $43 million of revenue recognized in 2003 under the volumetric production payment agreement described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Exploration & Productions operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase(Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Gas and oil prices $ 133 $ 0.47 $ (88 ) $ (0.35 ) Gas and oil production (18 ) (0.06 ) 277 1.10 VPP revenue 27 0.10 DD&A rate (22 ) (0.08 ) 14 0.06 DD&A production 3 0.01 (105 ) (0.42 ) Operations and maintenance (41 ) (0.15 ) (21 ) (0.08 ) Severance taxes (18 ) (0.06 ) (7 ) (0.03 ) Income taxes (20 ) (0.07 ) (5 ) (0.02 ) Other (9 ) (0.03 ) (5 ) (0.03 ) Share dilution $ (0.17 ) $ (0.16 ) Change in net income contribution $ 35 $ (0.04 ) $ 60 $ 0.07 32 Table of Contents 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Exploration & Productions net income contribution rose $35 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n Higher average realized prices for gas and oil; n Lower oil production, reflecting declines in Gulf of Mexico shelf and deepwater production. Lower gas production, reflecting the sale of minerals rights under a volumetric production payment agreement (VPP) and declines in Rocky Mountain and Michigan production, was largely offset by increased Gulf of Mexico gas production; n A higher rate for depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2003, primarily reflecting increased acquisition, finding and development costs; nHigher operations and maintenance expenses which increased in connection with overall higher commodity prices in 2003, that caused an increase in the demand for equipment, labor and services; n Higher severance taxes, resulting from higher gas and oil revenue associated with higher commodity prices in a higher commodity price environment and n Higher income taxes, primarily reflecting the expiration of Section 29 production tax credits beginning in 2003 ($34 million), partially offset by a reduction in tax rates applied to deferred taxes associated with Canadian operations ($14 million). 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Exploration & Productions net income contribution rose $60 million, primarily reflecting a full year of Louis Dreyfus operations following its acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2001. These new operations, as well as ongoing drilling programs, resulted in increased gas and oil production, and higher operating expenses, such as depreciation, depletion and amortization and gas well expenses. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes the operations of DCI, DFV and related telecommunications operations, and Dominions corporate and other operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS amounts) Specific items attributable to operating segments $ (221 ) $ 7 $ (297 ) DCI operations (95 ) 14 (225 ) Telecommunications operations(1) (750 ) (26 ) Other corporate operations (342 ) (264 ) (344 ) Total net expense (1,408 ) (269 ) (866 ) Earnings per share impact $ (4.41 ) $ (0.94 ) $ (3.43 ) (1) $642 million is classified as discontinued operations in 2003. Specific Items Attributable to Operating Segments 2003 During 2003, Dominion reported in the Corporate and Other segment the following items attributable to its operating segments: n $21 million net after tax gain representing the cumulative effect of adopting new accounting principles, as described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including: n SFAS No. 143: a $180 million after tax gain attributable to: Dominion Generation ($188 million after tax gain); Dominion Exploration & Production ($7 million after tax loss); and Dominion Delivery ($1 million after tax loss); n EITF 02 3: a $67 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Energy; n SFAS No. 133 Interpretation C20: a $75 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Generation and n FIN 46R: a $17 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Generation; n $197 million of operations and maintenance expense ($122 million after tax), representing incremental restoration expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel, attributable primarily to Dominion Delivery; n A $105 million ($65 million after tax) charge for the termination of power purchase contracts attributable to Dominion Generation; n A $64 million ($39 million after tax) charge for the restructuring and termination of certain electric sales contracts attributable to Dominion Generation and n $28 million ($16 million after tax) of severance costs for workforce reductions during the first quarter of 2003, attributable to: n Dominion Generation ($8 million after tax) n Dominion Energy ($2 million after tax), n Dominion Delivery ($4 million after tax), n Dominion Exploration & Production ($1 million after tax) and n Corporate and other ($1 million after tax); Specific Items Attributable to Operating Segments 2001 During 2001, Dominion reported in the Corporate and Other segment the following items attributable to its operating segments: n A $68 million after tax charge for restructuring activities, including employee severance and termination benefits and costs associated with the termination of leases, attributable to: n Dominion Generation ($8 million after tax); n Dominion Energy ($9 million after tax); n Dominion Delivery ($44 million after tax) and n Dominion Exploration & Production ($3 million after tax); n A $97 million after tax charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron attributable to: n Dominion Exploration & Production ($99 million after tax); n Dominion Energy ($2 million after tax credit); 33 Table of Contents n A $136 million after tax charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts attributable to Dominion Generation. DCI Operations DCI recognized a net loss in 2003, resulting primarily from the recognition of the following: n $51 million ($33 million after tax) impairment of retained interests from securitizations; n $34 million ($22 million after tax) impairment of goodwill and other investments; n $23 million ($15 million after tax) recognized in connection with the sale of financial assets during the fourth quarter of 2003 and n $26 million valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. DCI earned $14 million in 2002, compared to a net loss of $225 million in 2001. The net loss in 2001, resulted primarily from the recognition of the following: n $102 million ($66 million after tax) impairment of retained interests from securitizations; n $94 million ($61 million after tax) impairment of loans receivable and n $85 million ($55 million after tax) impairment of other investments. Telecommunications Operations Dominions loss from its telecommunications business increased $724 million to $750 million in 2003, primarily reflecting: n $566 million associated with the impairment of network assets and related inventories. Dominion has not recognized any deferred tax benefits related to the impairment charges, since realization of tax benefits will be dependent upon Dominions future tax profile; n A $48 million increase in deferred tax expense as a result of the increase in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets; n Dominions purchase of the remaining equity interest in DFV held by another party for $62 million in December 2003, $60 million of which was recorded as goodwill and impaired; n $57 million ($35 million after tax) for the costs associated with Dominions acquisition of DFV senior notes and n $41 million of after tax operating losses. Other Corporate Operations The net loss associated with other corporate operations for 2003 increased by $78 million as compared to 2002, primarily reflecting the impairment of certain investments held for sale. Included in these investments was a small generation facility in Kauai, Hawaii that was sold in December 2003. The net loss associated with other corporate operations decreased in 2002 as compared to 2001, primarily as a result of discontinuing the amortization of goodwill beginning January 1, 2002. Dominions Sources and Uses of Cash Dominion and its subsidiaries depend on both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided by operating activities are generally satisfied with proceeds from short term borrowings. Long term cash needs are met through sales of securities and additional long term financing. At December 31, 2003, Dominion had cash and cash equivalents of $126 million with $655 million of unused capacity under its credit facilities. For long term financing needs, amounts available for debt or equity offerings under currently effective shelf registrations totaled $4.4 billion at March 1, 2004. Cash Provided By Operations As presented on Dominions Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, net cash flows from operating activities were $2.4 billion for each of the years 2003, 2002 and 2001. Dominions management believes that its operations provide a stable source of cash flow sufficient to contribute to planned levels of capital expenditures and maintain or grow current shareholder dividend levels. Dominions operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact the timing or amounts of operating cash flow, including: n Unusual weather and its effect on energy sales to customers and energy commodity prices; n Extreme weather events that could disrupt gas and oil production or cause catastrophic damage to Dominions electric distribution and transmission systems; n Exposure to unanticipated changes in prices for energy commodities purchased or sold, including the effect on derivative instruments that may require the use of funds to post margin deposits with counterparties; n Effectiveness of Dominions risk management activities and underlying assessment of market conditions and related factors, including energy commodity prices, basis, liquidity, volatility, counterparty credit risk, availability of generation and transmission capacity, currency exchange rates and interest rates; n The cost of replacement electric energy in the event of longer than expected or unscheduled generation outages; n Contractual or regulatory restrictions on transfers of funds among Dominion and its subsidiaries; and n Timeliness of recovery for costs subject to cost of service utility rate regulation. Credit Risk Dominions exposure to potential concentrations of credit risk results primarily from its energy trading, marketing and hedging activities and sales of gas and oil production. Presented below is a summary of Dominions gross and net credit exposure as of December 31, 2003 for these activities. Dominion calculates its gross credit exposure for each counterparty as the unrealized 34 Table of Contents fair value of derivative contracts plus any outstanding receivables (net of payables, where netting agreements exist), prior to the application of collateral.  GrossCreditExposure CreditCollateral NetCreditExposure (millions) Investment grade(1) $ 404 $ 404 Non investment grade(2) 60 $ 14 46 No external ratings: Internally rated investment grade(3) 306 306 Internally rated non investment grade(4) 109 109 Total $ 879 $ 14 $ 865 (1) Designations as investment grade are based upon minimum credit ratings assigned by Moodys and Standard & Poors. The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 13% of the total gross credit exposure. (2) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 4% of the total gross credit exposure. (3) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 24% of the total gross credit exposure. (4) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 5% of the total gross credit exposure. Cash Provided By Financing Activities Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and CNG (collectively the Dominion Companies) rely on bank and capital markets as a significant source of funding for capital requirements not satisfied by cash provided by the companies operations. As discussed further in the Credit Ratings section below, the Dominion Companies ability to borrow funds or issue securities and the return demanded by investors are affected by the issuing companys credit ratings. In addition, the raising of external capital is subject to certain regulatory approvals, including authorization by the SEC and, in the case of Virginia Power, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission). During 2003, 2002 and 2001, net cash flows from financing activities were $853 million, $1.3 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. During 2003, the Dominion Companies issued long term debt (net of exchanged debt) and common stock totaling approximately $4.4 billion. The proceeds were used primarily to repay other debt and to finance capital expenditures. Credit Facilities and Short Term Debt The Dominion Companies use short term debt, primarily commercial paper, to fund working capital requirements and as bridge financing for acquisitions, if applicable. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly during the course of the year, depending upon the timing and amount of cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. At December 31, 2003, the Dominion Companies had committed lines of credit totaling $3.0 billion. Although there were no loans outstanding, these lines of credit support commercial paper borrowings and letter of credit issuances. At December 31, 2003, the Dominion Companies had the following short term debt outstanding and capacity available under credit facilities: FacilityLimit OutstandingCommercialPaper OutstandingLetters ofCredit FacilityCapacityAvailable (millions) 364 day joint revolving credit facility $ 1,250 Three year joint revolving credit facility 750 Total joint credit facilities(1) 2,000 $ 1,440 $ 85 $ 475 364 day CNG credit facility(2) 1,000 820 180 Totals $ 3,000 $ 1,440 $ 905 $ 655 (1) The joint credit facilities support borrowings by the Dominion Companies. The 364 day revolving credit facility was executed in May 2003 and terminates in May 2004. The three year revolving credit facility was executed in May 2002 and terminates in May 2005. (2) The credit facility is used to support the issuance of letters of credit and commercial paper by CNG to fund collateral requirements under its gas and oil hedging program. The facility was executed in August 2003 and terminates in August 2004. Dominions financial policy precludes issuing commercial paper in excess of its supporting lines of credit. At December 31, 2003, the total amount of commercial paper outstanding was $1,440 million and the total amount of letter of credit issuances was $905 million, leaving approximately $655 million available for issuance. The Dominion Companies are required to pay minimal annual commitment fees to maintain the credit facilities. In addition, these credit agreements contain various terms and conditions that could affect the Dominion Companies ability to borrow under these facilities. They include maximum debt to total capital ratios, material adverse change clauses and cross default provisions. All of the credit facilities include a defined maximum total debt to total capital ratio. As of December 31, 2003, the calculated ratio for the Dominion Companies, pursuant to the terms of the agreements, was as follows: Company MaximumRatio ActualRatio(1) Dominion Resources, Inc. 65 % 56 % Virginia Power 60 % 52 % CNG 60 % 52 % (1) Indebtedness as defined by the bank agreements excludes certain junior subordinated notes payable to affiliated trusts and mandatorily convertible securities that are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These provisions apply separately to Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power and CNG. If any one of the Dominion Companies or any of that specific companys material subsidiaries fail to make payment on various debt obligations in excess of $25 million, the lenders could require that respective company to accelerate its repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the credit facility and the lenders could terminate their commit 35 Table of Contents ment to lend funds to that company. Accordingly, any defaults on indebtedness by CNG or any of its material subsidiaries would not affect the lenders commitment to Virginia Power. Similarly, any defaults on indebtedness by Virginia Power or any of its material subsidiaries would not affect the lenders commitment to CNG. However, any default by either CNG or Virginia Power would also affect in like manner the lenders commitment to Dominion Resources, Inc. under the joint credit agreements. Although the joint credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses, the participating lenders, under those specific provisions, cannot refuse to advance funds to any of the Dominion Companies for the repurchase of its outstanding commercial paper. Common Stock During 2003, Dominion issued 17 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $990 million. Of this amount, 11 million shares and proceeds of $683 million resulted from a public offering. The remainder of the shares issued and proceeds received were through Dominion Direct&reg; (a dividend reinvestment and open enrollment direct stock purchase plan), employee savings plans and the exercise of employee stock options. Long Term Debt During 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries issued the following long term debt: Type Principal Rate Maturity IssuingCompany (millions) Senior notes $ 2,120 2.125% to6.30% 2005 to2033 DominionResources, Inc. Senior notes 500 Variable 2013 DominionResources, Inc. Senior notes 200 5.00% 2014 CNG Senior notes 1,055 4.10% to5.25% 2010 to2038 Virginia Power Total long term debt issued 3,875 Less: direct exchange(1) (500 ) Total long term debt issued, excluding direct exchanges $ 3,375 (1) During the third quarter of 2003, Dominion redeemed its $500 million variable rate senior notes due 2013. In a direct exchange, Dominion completed the redemption by issuing $510 million of 5.25% senior notes due 2033. In addition to the senior notes described above, Dominion borrowed $18 million to complete a power generation project at Virginia Powers Possum Point power station. In January 2004, Dominion Resources, Inc. issued $100 million of variable rate senior notes due 2006 and $200 million of 5.2% senior notes due 2016. Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, principally the repayment of debt. During 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries repaid $2.9 billion of long term debt securities. Dominion used the entirety of its $500 million escrow deposit, established in December 2002, to repay matured debt in January 2003. Amounts Available under Shelf Registrations At March 1, 2004, Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power, and CNG had approximately $2.4 billion, $670 million, and $1.3 billion, respectively, of available capacity under currently effective shelf registrations. Securities that may be issued under these shelf registrations, depending upon the registrant, include senior notes (including medium term notes), subordinated notes, first and refunding mortgage bonds, trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock. Credit Ratings Credit ratings are intended to provide banks and capital market participants with a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Management believes that the current credit ratings of the Dominion Companies provide sufficient access to the capital markets. However, disruptions in the banking and capital markets not specifically related to Dominion may affect the Dominion Companies ability to access these funding sources or cause an increase in the return required by investors. Both quantitative (financial strength) and qualitative (business or operating characteristics) factors are considered by the credit rating agencies in establishing an individual companys credit rating. Credit ratings should be evaluated independently and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. The credit ratings for the Dominion Companies are most affected by each companys financial profile, mix of regulated and non regulated businesses and respective cash flows, changes in methodologies used by the rating agencies and event risk, if applicable, such as major acquisitions. Credit ratings for the Dominion Companies as of February 2, 2004 follow: Standard& Poors Moodys Dominion Resources, Inc. Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ Baa1 Preferred securities of affiliated trusts BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 Virginia Power Mortgage bonds A A2 Senior unsecured (including tax exempt) debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of affiliated trust BBB Baa1 Preferred stock BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 1 CNG Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of affiliated trust BBB Baa1 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 36 Table of Contents As of February 2, 2004, Moodys maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of CNG and Standard & Poors maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of Dominion Resources, Inc. and CNG. Generally, a downgrade in an individual companys credit rating would not restrict its ability to raise short term and long term financing so long as its credit rating remains investment grade, but it would increase the cost of borrowing. Dominion has been working closely with both Standard & Poors and Moodys with the objective of maintaining its current credit ratings. Recent steps to improve the agencies view of Dominions financial position include the reduction of planned capital spending and related borrowings, as discussed below, and the issuance of $2.0 billion of common stock during 2002 and $990 million during 2003. As discussed in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results, in order to maintain its current ratings, Dominion may find it necessary to modify its business plans and such changes may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. Debt Covenants As part of borrowing funds and issuing debt (both short term and long term) or preferred securities, the Dominion Companies must enter into enabling agreements. These agreements contain covenants that, in the event of default, could result in the acceleration of principal and interest payments; restrictions on distributions related to its capital stock, including dividends, redemptions, repurchases, liquidation payments or guarantee payments; and in some cases, the termination of credit commitments unless a waiver of such requirements is agreed to by the lenders/security holders. These provisions are customary, with each agreement specifying which covenants apply. These provisions are not necessarily unique to the Dominion Companies. Some of the typical covenants include: n The timely payment of principal and interest; n Information requirements, including submitting financial reports filed with the SEC to lenders; n Performance obligations, audits/inspections, continuation of the basic nature of business, restrictions on certain matters related to merger or consolidation, restrictions on disposition of substantial assets; n Compliance with collateral minimums or requirements related to mortgage bonds; and n Limitations on liens. Dominion monitors the covenants on a regular basis in order to ensure that events of default will not occur. As of December 31, 2003, there were no events of default under the Dominion Companies covenants. Cash Used In Investing Activities During 2003, 2002 and 2001, investing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $3.4 billion, $4.0 billion, and $4.2 billion respectively. Significant investing activities for 2003 included: n $2.1 billion for the construction and expansion of generation facilities, including environmental upgrades, purchases of nuclear fuel, and construction and improvements of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets; n $1.3 billion for the purchase and development of gas and oil producing properties, drilling and equipment costs and undeveloped lease acquisitions; n $777 million for the purchase of securities and $912 million for the sale of securities, primarily related to investments held in nuclear decommissioning trusts; n $633 million for purchase of DFV senior notes; n $385 million in advances related to a generation project under construction in Pennsylvania. The asset, when completed, will be leased to Dominion; n $305 million of proceeds from sales of gas and oil properties and n release of $500 million from escrow for the repayment of debt. Future Cash Payments For Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expenditures Dominion is party to numerous contracts and arrangements obligating Dominion to make cash payments in future years. These contracts include financing arrangements such as debt agreements and leases, as well as contracts for the purchase of goods and services and financial derivatives. Presented below is a table summarizing expected cash payments that may result from contracts to which Dominion is a party as of December 31, 2003. For purchase obligations and other liabilities, amounts are largely estimated based upon contract terms, including fixed, minimum or expected quantities to be purchased at fixed or market based prices. Actual cash payments will be based upon actual quantities purchased and prices paid and will likely differ from amounts presented below. LessThan 1Year 1 3years 3 5years Morethan 5years Total (millions) Long term debt(1) $ 1,239 $ 3,724 $ 2,626 $ 9,485 $ 17,074 Interest charges 981 1,778 1,383 7,965 12,107 Leases 70 95 60 57 282 Purchase obligations: Purchased electric capacity for utility operations 589 1,155 1,063 4,176 6,983 Fuel used for utility operations other(2) 986 638 309 424 2,357 Production handling 44 117 89 43 293 Pipeline capacity 86 141 89 235 551 Energy commodity purchases for resale(3) 547 102 24 673 Other fuel nonregulated 30 119 102 251 Other 283 276 265 274 1,098 Other long term liabilities: Financial derivatives(3) 725 645 40 193 1,603 Asset retirement obligations(4) 49 56 84 11,502 11,691 Other contractual obligations 55 35 4 32 126 Total cash payments $ 5,684 $ 8,881 $ 6,138 $ 34,386 $ 55,089 (1) Based on stated maturity dates rather than the earlier redemption dates that could be elected by instrument holders. 37 Table of Contents (2) Fuel used in utility operations is recoverable through rate recovery mechanisms. (3) Represents the summation of settlement amounts, by contracts, due from Dominion if all physical or financial transactions among Dominion and its counterparties were liquidated and terminated. (4) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. Dominions planned capital expenditures during 2004 are expected to total approximately $2.4 billion. For 2005, planned capital expenditures are expected to range from $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion. These expenditures include construction and expansion of generation facilities, environmental upgrades, construction improvements and expansion of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets, purchases of nuclear fuel and expenditures to explore for and develop natural gas and oil properties. Dominion expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from operations, and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. Dominion may choose to postpone or cancel certain planned capital expenditures, to the extent they are not fully covered by operating cash flows. Dominion would do this in order to mitigate the need for future debt financings, beyond those needed to cover normal maturities and redemptions. Use of Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Leasing Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, Dominion was party to an agreement with a voting interest entity (lessor) in order to construct and lease a new power generation project in Pennsylvania. Project costs totaled $695 million at December 31, 2003 of which $624 million was advanced to the lessor by Dominion. Dominion expects to be repaid during 2004. This project is expected to be completed in 2004 and will result in estimated annual lease commitments of approximately $58 million. A lease agreement has not yet been executed for this project, however, Dominion expects that, once executed, it will qualify as an operating lease. Dominion has been appointed to act as the construction agent for the lessor and controls the design and construction of the facility. Dominion, in this role, is responsible for completing construction by a specified date. In the event a project is terminated before completion, Dominion has the option to either purchase the project for 100% of project costs plus fees or terminate the project and turn it over to the lessor. Benefits of this arrangement include: n Certain tax benefits as Dominion would be considered the owner of the leased property for tax purposes. As a result, it would be entitled to tax deductions for depreciation not recognized for financial accounting purposes and n As an operating lease for financial accounting purposes, the asset and related borrowings used to finance the construction of the asset would not be included on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although this improves measures of leverage calculated using amounts reported in Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements, credit rating agencies view lease obligations as debt equivalents in evaluating Dominions credit profile. Securitizations of Mortgages and Loans As of December 31, 2003, Dominion held $413 million of retained interests from securitizations of mortgage and commercial loans completed in prior years. Dominion did not securitize or originate any loans in 2003. Investors in the securitization trusts have no recourse to Dominions other assets for failure of debtors to repay principal and interest on the underlying loans when due. Therefore, Dominions exposure to any future losses from this activity is limited to its investment in retained interests. Future Issues and Other Matters Status of Deregulation in Virginia The Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (the Virginia Restructuring Act), enacted in 1999, established a plan to restructure the electric utility industry in Virginia. The Virginia Restructuring Act addressed among other things: capped base rates, participation in a regional transmission organization (RTO), retail choice and the recovery of stranded costs. Dominion made retail choice available to all of its Virginia regulated electric customers as of January 1, 2003. Base Rates Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions Virginia jurisdictional operations is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation. Dominions base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) will remain capped until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner under the Virginia Restructuring Act. Recovery of generation related costs will continue through capped rates, and, where applicable, a wires charge assessed on those customers opting for alternative suppliers. Additionally, the Virginia Restructuring Act provides that after the end of the capped rate period, any default service provided by Dominion will be based upon competitive market prices for electric generation services. In January 2004, legislation supported by the Offices of the Governor and the Attorney General of Virginia was submitted to the Virginia General Assembly that would extend the capped base rates by three and one half years, through December 31, 2010. The bill was supported by Dominion and was approved by the Virginia Senate in late January 2004. In addition to extending capped rates, the bill would: n Lock in Dominions fuel factor until the earlier of July 1, 2007 or the termination of capped rates through Virginia Commission order; n Provide for a one time adjustment of Dominions fuel factor, effective July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, with no adjustment for previously incurred over recovery or under recovery of fuel costs and thus would eliminate deferred fuel accounting and 38 Table of Contents n End wires charges on the earlier of July 1, 2007, or the termination of capped rates, consistent with the Virginia Restructuring Acts original timetable. Other bills were introduced in the Virginia House of Delegates that would repeal the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend most of the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend customer choice, and re impose cost of service rate making. Legislation calling for suspension of the Virginia Restructuring Acts key provisions and a return to the cost of service regulatory methodology was defeated in a House committee in early February. Other measures have been deferred to 2005 by a House committee. Until the legislative process is concluded, no assessment can be made concerning future developments. RTO The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join an RTO subject to Virginia Commission approval. FERC requires each public utility that owns or operates transmission facilities to make certain filings with respect to RTO formation, but relies on voluntary formation of RTOs to advance its energy policies. By joining an RTO, Dominions regulated electric utility subsidiary, Virginia Power, would transfer functional control of its transmission assets to a third party RTO. In September 2002, Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into the PJM South Implementation Agreement. The agreement provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM, transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region and integrate its control area into the PJM energy markets. The agreement also allocates costs of implementation of the agreement among the parties. In June 2003, Dominion made a filing as required by the Virginia Restructuring Act requesting authorization from the Virginia Commission to become a member of PJM on November 1, 2004. In September 2003, the Virginia Commission issued an order directing Dominion to provide additional information concerning the application. Hearings on Dominions application are scheduled to begin in October 2004. Dominion intends to file for FERC and North Carolina Commission approval to join PJM in the future. Dominion has incurred and will continue to incur integration and operating costs associated with joining an RTO. Dominion has deferred certain of these costs for future recovery and is giving further consideration to seeking regulatory approval to defer the balance of such costs. Recovery of Stranded Costs Stranded costs are those generation related costs incurred or commitments made by utilities under cost based regulation that may not be reasonably expected to be recovered in a competitive market. At December 31, 2003, Dominions exposure to potentially stranded costs consisted of long term purchased power contracts that could ultimately be determined to be above market; generating plants that could possibly become uneconomical in a deregulated environment; and unfunded obligations for nuclear plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits not yet recognized in the financial statements. Dominion believes capped electric retail rates and, where applicable, wires charges will provide an opportunity to recover a portion of its potentially stranded costs, depending on market prices of electricity and other factors. Recovery of Dominions potentially stranded costs remains subject to numerous risks even in the capped rate environment. These include, among others, exposure to long term power purchase commitment losses, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, nuclear decommissioning costs, inflation, increased capital costs, and recovery of certain other items. The enactment of deregulation legislation in 1999 not only caused the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71 for Dominions Virginia jurisdictional utility generation related operations but also caused Dominion to review its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses at that time. Significant assumptions considered in that review included possible future market prices for fuel and electricity, load growth, generating unit availability and future capacity additions in Dominions market, capital expenditures, including those related to environmental improvements, and decommissioning activities. Based on those analyses, no recognition of plant impairments or contract losses was appropriate at that time. In response to future events resulting from the development of a competitive market structure in Virginia and the expiration or termination of capped rates and wires charges, Dominion may have to reevaluate its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses. Assumptions about future market prices for electricity represent a critical factor that affects the results of such evaluations. Since 1999, market prices for electricity have fluctuated significantly and will continue to be subject to volatility. Any such review in the future, which would be highly dependent on assumptions considered appropriate at the time, could possibly result in the recognition of plant impairment or contract losses that would be material to Dominions results of operations or its financial position. In January 2004, the Commission on Electric Utility Restructuring adopted a resolution related to the monitoring of stranded costs. Changes to Cost Structure While the Virginia Restructuring Act did not define specific generation related costs to be recovered, it did provide for generation related cash flows (through the combination of capped rates and wires charges billed to customers) through July 1, 2007, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the Virginia Restructuring Act (the transition period). The generation related cash flows provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act are intended to compensate Dominion for continuing to provide generation services and to allow Dominion management to incur costs to restructure such operations during the transition period. As a result, during the tran 39 Table of Contents sition period, Dominion may increase earnings to the extent that management can reduce operating costs for its utility generation related operations. Conversely, the same risks affecting the recovery of Dominions stranded costs, discussed above, may also adversely impact its cost structure during the transition period. Accordingly, Dominion could realize the negative economic impact of any such adverse event. In addition to managing the cost of its generation related operations, Dominion may also seek opportunities to sell available electric energy and capacity to customers beyond its electric utility service territory. Using cash flows from operations during the transition period, Dominion may further alter its cost structure or choose to make additional investment in its business. The capped rates were derived from rates established as part of the 1998 Virginia rate settlement and do not provide for specific recovery of particular generation related expenditures, except for certain regulatory assets. To the extent that Dominion manages its operations to reduce its overall operating costs below those levels included in the capped rates, Dominions earnings may increase. Since the enactment of the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominion has been reviewing its cost structure to identify opportunities to reduce the annual operating expenses of its generation related operations. For example, the reduction in future fixed capacity payments, resulting from the termination of certain long term power purchase agreements during 2001 and 2003, is expected to increase annual after tax earnings by approximately $48 million during the transition period. Also in 2002 and 2001, Dominion revised the estimated useful lives of its electric generation assets. The changes in estimates were based upon expected life extensions of nuclear plants and new engineering studies of the other assets. As a result of these changes, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $67 million during the transition period, as a result of lower depreciation expense for these assets. FERC Standard Market Design Proposal In 2002, FERC issued proposed rules that would establish a standardized transmission service and wholesale electric market design for entities participating in wholesale electric markets. FERC proposed to exercise jurisdiction over the transmission component of bundled retail transactions, modify the existing electric transmission tariff to include a single tariff service applicable to all transmission customers and provide a standard market design for wholesale electric markets. FERC also proposed that transmission owners that have not yet joined an RTO must contract with a separate entity, an independent transmission provider, to operate their transmission facilities. FERC scheduled a number of technical conferences and meetings with interested parties and has indicated that the market design and timing of the rule is subject to change. In April 2003, FERC issued a discussion document addressing several issues raised by state regulatory commissions and market participants in FERCs proposed Standard Market Design. The document proposes certain changes to Standard Market Design and to work with the states and market participants to develop reasonable timetables for moving forward on the formation of RTOs. FERC also stated that it would not use the Standard Market Design rulemaking to overturn prior RTO orders where there is an overlap. It is uncertain what impact, if any, these matters may have on Dominions efforts to join PJM or on the design of wholesale electric markets. Environmental Matters Dominion is subject to costs resulting from a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect human health and the environment. These laws and regulations affect future planning and existing operations. They can result in increased capital, operating and other costs as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations. Historically, Dominion recovered such costs arising from regulated electric operations through utility rates. However, to the extent that environmental costs are incurred in connection with operations regulated by the Virginia Commission, during the period ending June 30, 2007, in excess of the level currently included in the Virginia jurisdictional electric retail rates, Dominions results of operations will decrease. After that date, recovery through regulated rates may be sought for only those environmental costs related to regulated electric transmission and distribution operations. Dominion also may seek recovery through regulated rates for environmental expenditures related to regulated gas transmission and distribution operations. Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures Dominion incurred approximately $113 million, $123 million and $116 million of expenses (including depreciation) during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, in connection with environmental protection and monitoring activities, and expects these expenses to be approximately $120 million in 2004. In addition, capital expenditures related to environmental controls were $210 million, $335 million and $221 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The estimated amount for these expenditures is $100 million for 2004. Clean Air Act Compliance The Clean Air Act requires Dominion to reduce its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NOX ), which are gaseous by products of fossil fuel combustion. The Clean Air Acts SO2 and NOX reduction programs include: n The issuance of a limited number of SO2 emission allowances. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of SO2 into the atmosphere. The allowances may be transacted with a third party; and n The issuance of a limited number of NOX emission allowances to comply with NOX emission requirements applicable during ozone season months of May through September. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of NOX into the atmosphere. 40 Table of Contents Implementation of projects to comply with SO2 and NOX limitations are ongoing and will be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, availability of allowances, various state and federal control programs, and emission control technology. In response to these requirements, Dominion expects to make the following capital expenditures at its affected generating facilities: n $350 million during the period 2004 through 2008 on SO2 emission control equipment; and n $72 million during 2004 through 2005 on NOX reduction equipment. Total costs are expected to be $708 million, of which approximately $636 million has been incurred through December 31, 2003. The majority of these cost estimates are also included in the capital cost expenditure estimate contemplated by the Consent Decree, described below. In relation to a Notice of Violation received by Virginia Power in 2000 from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and related proceedings, Virginia Power, the U.S. Department of Justice, the EPA, and the states of Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York agreed to a settlement in April 2003 in the form of a proposed Consent Decree. The Virginia federal district court entered the final Consent Decree in October 2003, resolving the underlying actions. Under the settlement, Virginia Power paid a $5 million civil penalty, agreed to fund $14 million for environmental projects and committed to improve air quality under the Consent Decree estimated to involve expenditures of $1.2 billion. Dominion has already incurred certain capital expenditures for environmental improvements at its coal fired stations in Virginia and West Virginia and has committed to additional measures in its current financial plans and capital budget to satisfy the requirements of the Consent Decree. As of December 31, 2003, Dominion had recognized a provision for the funding of the environmental projects, substantially all of which was recorded in 2000. Other As part of its reissuance of a pollution discharge permit for the Millstone Power Station, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection is evaluating the ecological impacts of the cooling water intake system. Until the permit is reissued, it is not possible to predict the financial impact, if any, that may result. Future Environmental Regulations In December 2003, the EPA announced plans to propose additional regulations addressing pollution transport from electric generating units as well as the regulation of mercury and nickel emissions. These regulatory actions, in addition to revised regulations expected to be issued in 2004 to address regional haze, could require additional reductions in emissions from the Companys fossil fuel fired generating facilities. If these new emission reduction requirements are imposed additional significant expenditures may be required. Under authority of the Clean Water Act, the EPA has announced the publication of new regulations governing utilities that employ a cooling water intake structure, with flow levels that exceed a minimum threshold. As announced, the EPAs rule presents several control options. Dominion is evaluating facility information from affected power stations. Dominion cannot predict the future impact on its operations at this time. The U.S. Congress is considering various legislative proposals that would require generating facilities to comply with more stringent air emissions standards. Emission reduction requirements under consideration would be phased in under a variety of periods of up to 16 years. If these new proposals are adopted, additional significant expenditures may be required. In 1997, the United States signed an international Protocol to limit man made greenhouse emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. However, the Protocol will not become binding unless approved by the U.S. Senate. Currently, the Bush Administration has indicated that it will not pursue ratification of the Protocol and has set a voluntary goal of reducing the nations greenhouse gas emission intensity by 18% over the next 10 years. Several legislative proposals that include provisions seeking to impose mandatory reductions of greenhouse gas emissions are under consideration in the United States Congress. The cost of compliance with the Protocol or other mandatory greenhouse gas reduction obligations could be significant. Given the highly uncertain outcome and timing of future action, if any, by the U.S. federal government on this issue, Dominion cannot predict the financial impact of future climate change actions on its operations at this time. Other Matters Telecommunications Operations In December 2003, Dominion classified the assets and related liabilities of DTI as held for sale, and its results of operations as discontinued operations. The current plan of sale anticipates a closing by the end of June 2004. In addition DTI has long term obligations, including leases, maintenance agreements and other contracts, that must be considered in the sale and may result in additional losses in future periods depending upon the final terms of the sale. Millstone Operating Licenses In January 2003, Dominion filed with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to renew the operating licenses of its two nuclear units at Millstone Power Station. If renewed, Unit 2 would continue to operate until 2035 and Unit 3 until 2045. 41 Table of Contents Kewaunee Power Plant During the fourth quarter of 2003, Dominion announced an agreement with Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, a subsidiary of WPS Resources Corporation (WPS), and Wisconsin Power & Light Company (WP&L), a subsidiary of Alliant Energy Corporation, to purchase the Kewaunee Power Plant, a nuclear power station in northeastern Wisconsin. Under terms of the agreement, the aggregate purchase price is $220 million in cash, including $35 million for nuclear fuel. Dominion will sell 100% of the facilitys output to WPS (59%) and WP&L (41%) under a power purchase agreement that expires in 2013. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2004, pending applicable federal and state regulatory approvals. Kewaunee will be included in the Dominion Generation operating segment. Future Acquisitions Because Dominions industry is rapidly changing, there are many opportunities for acquisitions of assets, as well as for business combinations. Dominion investigates any opportunity that may increase shareholder value and build on existing businesses, with an objective to enter into transactions that would be immediately accretive to earnings per share. Dominion has participated in the past and its security holders may assume that at any time Dominion may be participating in bidding or other negotiations for such transactions. Such participation may or may not result in a transaction for Dominion. However, any such transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash, debt or equity securities. It may also involve payment of a premium over book or market values. Such transactions or payments could affect the market prices and rates for Dominions securities. Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Dominions financial instruments, commodity contracts and related derivative financial instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, equity security prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Interest rate risk generally is related to Dominions outstanding debt. Commodity price risk is present in Dominions electric operations, gas production and procurement operations, and energy marketing and trading operations due to the exposure to market shifts in prices received and paid for natural gas, electricity and other commodities. Dominion uses derivative commodity contracts to manage price risk exposures for these operations. In addition, Dominion is exposed to equity price risk through various portfolios of equity securities. The following sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive instruments over a selected time period due to a 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk Trading Activities As part of its strategy to market energy and to manage related risks, Dominion manages a portfolio of commodity based derivative instruments held for trading purposes. These contracts are sensitive to changes in the prices of natural gas, electricity and certain other commodities. Dominion uses established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these price fluctuations and uses derivative instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, to mitigate risk by creating offsetting market positions. In addition, Dominion may use its generation capacity to satisfy commitments to sell energy when not needed to serve customers in its service territory. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $56 million and $12 million in the fair value of Dominions commodity based financial derivative instruments held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Commodity Price Risk Non Trading Activities Dominion manages the price risk associated with purchases and sales of natural gas, oil and electricity by using derivative commodity instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the fair value of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Market prices and volatility are principally determined based on quoted prices on the futures exchange. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in market prices of Dominions non trading commodity based derivative financial instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of approximately $424 million and $357 million as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from derivative commodity instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, are substantially offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Interest Rate Risk Dominion manages its interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. Dominion also enters into interest rate sensitive derivatives, including interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. For financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would decrease annual earnings by approximately $10 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates, as determined at December 31, 2002, would have resulted in a decrease in annual earnings of approximately $4 million. 42 Table of Contents In addition, Dominion, through subsidiaries, retains ownership of mortgage investments, including subordinated bonds and interest only residual assets retained from securitizations of mortgage loans originated and purchased in prior years. Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discusses the impact of changes in value of these investments. Foreign Exchange Risk Dominions Canadian natural gas and oil exploration and production activities are relatively self contained within Canada. As a result, Dominions exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for these activities is limited primarily to the effects of translation adjustments that arise from including that operation in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominions management monitors this exposure and believes it is not material. In addition, Dominion manages its foreign exchange risk exposure associated with anticipated future purchases of nuclear fuel processing services denominated in foreign currencies by utilizing currency forward contracts. As a result of holding these contracts as hedges, Dominions exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in relevant foreign exchange rates would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $19 million and $22 million in the fair value of currency forward contracts held by Dominion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Investment Price Risk Dominion is subject to investment price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in decommissioning trust funds. In accordance with current accounting standards, these marketable securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Dominion recognized a net realized loss (net of investment income) of $10 million and a net unrealized gain of $263 million on decommissioning trust investments for the year ended 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Dominion recognized a net realized gain (including investment income) of $32 million and a net unrealized loss of $166 million. Dominion also sponsors employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund benefit payments. To the extent that the values of investments held in these trusts decline, the effect will be reflected in Dominions recognition of the periodic cost of such employee benefit plans and the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit plans. During 2003, Dominions pension plans experienced net realized and unrealized gains of $627 million and in 2002 net realized and unrealized losses of $241 million. Risk Management Policies Dominion has operating procedures in place that are administered by experienced management to help ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, Dominion has established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the risk management policies of all subsidiaries. Dominion maintains credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterpartys financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary, and the use of standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, Dominion also monitors the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on credit policies and the December 31, 2003 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward looking statement include weather conditions; governmental regulations; cost of environmental compliance; inherent risk in the operation of nuclear facilities; fluctuations in energy related commodities prices and the effect these could have on Dominions earnings, liquidity position and the underlying value of its assets; trading counterparty credit risk; capital market conditions, including price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in trusts and benefit plans; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in rating agency requirements and ratings; changes in accounting standards; collective bargaining agreements and labor negotiations; the risks of operating businesses in regulated industries that are becoming deregulated; the transfer of control over electric transmission facilities to a regional transmission organization; political and economic conditions (including inflation and deflation); and completing the divestiture of investments held by DCI, CNG International Corporation and DFV. Other more specific risk factors are as follows: Dominions operations are weather sensitive. Dominions results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms and droughts, can be destructive, causing outages, production delays and property damage that require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Dominion is subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect its operations. Dominions operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. Dominion must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes the necessary approvals have been obtained for Dominions existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of 43 Table of Contents existing laws or regulations, may require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed Dominions estimates. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. In addition, Dominion may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Dominion is exposed to cost recovery shortfalls because of capped base rates in effect in Virginia through mid 2007 for its regulated electric utility. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations is open to competition and resulting uncertainty. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominions base rates (excluding, generally, fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) remain unchanged until July 2007 unless modified or terminated consistent with the Virginia Restructuring Act. Although the Virginia Restructuring Act allows for the recovery of certain generation related costs during the capped rates period, Dominion remains exposed to numerous risks of cost recovery shortfalls. These include exposure to potentially stranded costs, future environmental compliance requirements, tax law changes, costs related to hurricanes or other weather events, inflation and increased capital costs. In addition, under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations is open to competition and is no longer subject to cost based regulation. To date, the competitive market has been slow to develop and it is difficult to predict the pace at which the competitive environment will evolve and the extent to which Dominion will face increased competition and be able to operate profitably within this competitive environment. Additional uncertainty arises from several legislative proposals currently under consideration by the 2004 Virginia General Assembly. These proposals range from extending for three and a half years the period during which capped rates are in effect but with certain limitations on changes in the fuel factor, to suspending customer choice and returning to cost based regulation. See Future Issues and Other Matters Status of Deregulation in Virginia in MD&A and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dominions merchant power business is operating in a challenging market. The success of Dominions merchant power business depends upon its ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Depressed spot and forward wholesale power prices and excess capacity in the industry could result in lower than expected revenues in Dominions merchant power business. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities. These risks include the cost of and Dominions ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, plant maintenance costs, threat of terrorism, spent nuclear fuel disposal costs and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. Dominion maintains decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses. Dominion uses derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. In the future, Dominion could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion is exposed to market risks beyond its control in its energy clearinghouse operations. Dominions energy clearinghouse and risk management operations are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. Many industry participants have experienced severe business downturns resulting in some companies exiting or curtailing participation in the energy trading markets. This has led to a reduction in the number of trading partners and lower industry trading revenues. Declining creditworthiness of some of Dominions trading counterparties may limit the level of its trading activities with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may not perform under a contract. Successfully executing Dominions exit from the telecommunications business is dependent upon market conditions and timing. In September 2003, Dominion announced it would recognize impairment charges related to DTI, its telecommunications investment, and that it plans to exit the telecommunications business. Continued depressed market conditions in the telecommunications industry may make it difficult for Dominion to sell the business as a whole, resulting in sales of telecommunications assets that may not include a transfer of all associated liabilities. Additionally, the difficulty in 44 Table of Contents finding suitable buyers for the telecommunications business and in obtaining required state and federal regulatory approvals could delay the sale of the business. If Dominion fails to sell its telecommunications business quickly, DTI risks the loss of current customers and key employees. DTI requires external sources of liquidity for its operating funds. Dominion has advanced, and anticipates making additional advances of, operating funds to DTI. Given its current financial and operating position, it is unlikely that DTI would be able to secure funds from other sources, so it is dependent on continued funding from Dominion to sustain its operations. Any additional funds provided by Dominion may not be recovered from a sale of the telecommunications business. Until a sale occurs, Dominions investment in the telecommunications business may continue to be adversely affected and could be subject to further impairment charges. Dominions exploration and production business is dependent on factors that cannot be predicted or controlled. Factors that may affect Dominions financial results include fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, Dominions ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas as well as inherent operational risks that could disrupt production. Dominions liquidity may also be impacted by margin requirements that result from financial derivatives used to hedge future sales of gas and oil production and require the deposit of funds and other collateral with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. Short term market declines in natural gas and oil prices may also result in the permanent write down of Dominions gas and oil properties as required by the full cost method of accounting. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. If net capitalized costs exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge adjusted period end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test), in a given country, at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of Dominions business plan. Dominion relies on access to both short term money markets and longer term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from its operations. Management believes that Dominion and its subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of Dominions control may increase its cost of borrowing or restrict its ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to Dominions credit ratings. Restrictions on Dominions ability to access financial markets may affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect Dominions growth and business strategy. As of February 2, 2004, Dominions senior unsecured debt was rated BBB+, negative outlook, by Standard & Poors and Baa1, stable outlook, by Moodys. Both agencies have recently implemented more stringent applications of the financial requirements for various ratings levels. In order to maintain its current credit ratings in light of these or future new requirements, Dominion may find it necessary to take steps or modify its business plans in ways that may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominions credit ratings by either Standard & Poors or Moodys could increase its borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect Dominions financial results. Dominion cannot predict the impact future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general or the energy industry or its operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way Dominion records revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect Dominions reported earnings or could increase reported liabilities. I tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 45 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses the results of operations and general financial condition of Dominion. MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. The term Dominion is used throughout MD&A and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources, Inc.; one of Dominion Resources, Inc.s consolidated subsidiaries; or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Contents of MD&A The reader will find the following information in this MD&A: n Forward Looking Statements n Introduction n Accounting Matters n Dominions Results of Operations n Segment Results of Operations n Dominions Sources and Uses of Cash n Future Issues and Other Matters n Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management n Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements that May Affect Future Results 19 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements This report contains statements concerning Dominions expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In most cases, the reader can identify these forward looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, forecast, expect, believe, should, could, plan, may or other similar words. Dominion makes forward looking statements with full knowledge that risks and uncertainties exist that may cause actual results to be materially different from predicted results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward looking statements themselves. Additionally, other risks that may cause actual results to differ from predicted results are set forth in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results. Dominion bases its forward looking statements on managements beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. Dominion cautions the reader not to place undue reliance on its forward looking statements because the assumptions, beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may, and often do, materially differ from actual results. Dominion undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect developments occurring after the statement is made. Introduction Dominion is a diversified, fully integrated electric and gas holding company headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. Dominion concentrates its efforts largely in what Dominion refers to as the MAIN to Maine region. In the power industry, MAIN means the Mid America Interconnected Network, which comprises all of Illinois and portions of the states of Missouri, Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota. Under this strategy, Dominion focuses its efforts on the region stretching from MAIN, through its primary Mid Atlantic service areas in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina, and up through New York and New England. The MAIN to Maine region is home to approximately 40% of the nations demand for energy. Operating in all aspects of the energy supply chain positions Dominion to optimize the value of its energy portfolio and enhance its return on invested capital. Dominion has the capability to discover and produce gas, store it, sell it or use it to generate power; it can generate electricity to sell to customers in its retail markets or in wholesale transactions. These capabilities give Dominion the ability to produce and sell energy in whatever form it finds most useful and economic. Dominion also operates North Americas largest natural gas storage system, which gives it the flexibility to provide supply when it is most economically advantageous to do so. Maintaining and improving Dominions financial condition and flexibility is of paramount importance to its management. Important measures of an entitys financial strength and credit worthiness are the credit ratings assigned by Moodys and Standard & Poors. Dominion Resources, Inc., and its subsidiaries, Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), are each rated by those agencies and have ratings that are considered investment grade. Dominion has responded to recommendations by those agencies to reduce the percentage of debt in Dominions overall capital structure by focusing on minimizing incremental debt issuance, delaying certain capital projects and raising capital by issuing equity securities in proportion to debt so as to reduce overall debt to capital. Dominions businesses are managed along four primary operating segments: Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy, Dominion Delivery and Dominion Exploration & Production. These segments, and their composition, reflect changes made to Dominions management structure during the fourth quarter of 2003. The contributions to net income by Dominions primary operating segments are determined based on a measure of profit that executive management believes represents the segments core earnings. As a result, certain specific items attributable to those segments are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing segment performance or allocating resources among the segments. Those specific items are reported in the Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Generation includes the generation operations of Dominions electric utility and merchant fleet. The fuel mix used by these operations is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro and purchased power. Dominions strategy for its electric generation operations focuses on serving customers in the MAIN to Maine region. Its generation facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Pennsylvania and Ohio. In addition, Dominion expects to complete the acquisition of the Kewaunee power plant located in northeastern Wisconsin in the second half of 2004. Utility generation operations represent Dominion Generations primary source of revenue and cash flow. These operations are sensitive to external factors, primarily weather. Currently, revenue from utility operations largely reflects the capped rates charged to customers in Virginia, the majority of its utility customer base. Under Virginias current deregulation legislation, electric rates are capped through mid 2007. As rates are capped, changes in Dominion Generations operating costs, relative to costs recovered in the capped rates, will impact Dominions earnings. Dominion Generation has reduced costs by terminating certain long term power purchase agreements and, based on engineering studies, extended the estimated useful lives of generation assets, reducing the annual depreciation expense for those assets. Currently, legislators in Virginia are evaluating the future of electric deregulation in Virginia as well as the possibility of extending the capped rates period. 20 Table of Contents Prices received for electricity generated by its merchant fleet are market based, subjecting Dominion Generation to risks associated with recovering capital expenditures and absorbing variability in fuel costs. Generally, Dominion Generation manages these risks by entering into fixed price sales and purchase contracts. Variability in expenses for Dominion Generation relates primarily to the cost of labor and benefits, fuel consumed and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled outages. Dominion is currently permitted to seek rate recovery for fuel costs associated with utility operations. Dominion Energy includes the following operations: n A regulated interstate gas transmission pipeline and storage system, serving Dominions gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Midwest, the Mid Atlantic states and the Northeast; n A regulated electric transmission system principally located in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina; n Field services operations, representing aggregation of gas supply and related wholesale activities related to Appalachian and Canadian areas; n A liquefied natural gas unloading and storage facility in Maryland; n Certain gas production operations located in the Appalachian basin and n Dominion Energy Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse), which is responsible for energy trading, marketing, hedging and arbitrage activities. Dominion Energys revenue and cash flows are derived from both regulated and non regulated operations. Revenue and cash flow provided by regulated electric and gas transmission operations and the liquefied natural gas facility are based primarily on rates established by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Variability in revenue and cash flow provided by these businesses results primarily from changes in rates. Variability in expenses relates largely to operating and maintenance expenditures, including decisions regarding use of resources for operations and maintenance or capital related activities. Revenue and cash flow for Dominion Energys nonregulated businesses are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Dominion Energys nonregulated businesses use physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk. Certain hedging and trading activities may require cash deposits to satisfy margin requirements. In addition, reported earnings for this segment reflect changes in the fair value of certain derivatives; these values may change significantly from period to period. Variability in expenses for these nonregulated businesses relates largely to labor and benefits and the costs of purchased commodities for resale and payments under financially settled contracts. Dominion Delivery includes Dominions electric and gas distribution systems and customer service operations as well as retail energy marketing activities. Electric distribution operations serve customers in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina. Gas distribution operations serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales and transportation customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Retail energy marketing activities include the marketing of gas, electricity and related products and services to residential and small commercial customers in the Northeast and Midwest. Revenue and cash flow provided by electric and gas distribution operations are based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities. Variability in Dominion Deliverys revenue and cash flow relates largely to changes in volumes, which are primarily weather sensitive. For local gas distribution operations, revenue may vary based upon changes in levels of rate recovery for the costs of gas sold to customers. Such costs and recoveries generally offset and do not materially impact net income. Revenue from retail energy marketing operations may vary in connection with changes in weather and commodity prices as well as the acquisition and potential loss of customers. Variability in expenses results from changes in the cost of purchased gas, routine maintenance and repairs (including labor and benefits as well as decisions regarding the use of resources for operations and maintenance or capital related activities), and unplanned damage to property, such as the recent storm related damage caused by Hurricane Isabel. For gas distribution operations, Dominion is permitted to seek recovery of the cost of gas sold to customers. Dominion Exploration & Production includes Dominions gas and oil exploration, development and production operations. These operations are located in several major producing basins in the lower 48 states, including the outer continental shelf and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico, and Western Canada. Dominion Exploration & Production operates a drilling program focused on low risk development drilling in several proven onshore regions of the United States and Western Canada, while also maintaining some exposure to higher risk exploration opportunities. Significant development drilling programs are currently underway in West Texas, the Appalachians and the Rocky Mountains where Dominion Exploration & Production holds sizable acreage positions and operational experience. While each region provides Dominion Exploration & Production with exploration opportunities, most exploratory drilling takes place in the Gulf Coast region, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Dominion Exploration & Production maintains an active and ongoing drilling program, participating in 922 net wells during 2003, and replacing approximately 160 percent of its 2003 production. Revenue and cash flow provided by exploration and production operations are based primarily on the production and sale of company owned natural gas and oil reserves. Variability in Dominion Exploration & Productions revenue and cash flow relates primarily to changes in commodity prices, which are market based, and volumes, which are impacted by numerous 21 Table of Contents factors including drilling success, timing of development projects, as well as external factors such as severe weather. Dominion manages commodity price volatility by hedging a substantial portion of its near term expected production. Variability in Dominion Exploration & Productions expenses relates primarily to changes in operating costs and production taxes, which tend to increase and decrease with changes in gas and oil prices and the prevailing cost environment. Commodity price changes place upward or downward pressure on related E&P service industry costs, while severance and property taxes move with changes in revenue. A changing price environment impacts both operating costs and the cost of acquiring, finding and developing natural gas and oil reserves. Corporate and Other includes: n The operations of Dominion Capital, Inc., a financial services subsidiary (DCI), which are being divested in accordance with an SEC order; n Dominion Fiber Ventures, LLC (DFV) and its subsidiary, Dominion Telecom, Inc. (DTI), a telecommunications business that is being discontinued; n Dominions corporate and other operations, including its services company and n Specific items attributable to Dominions operating segments that are reported in Corporate and Other. Accounting Matters Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Dominion has identified the following accounting policies, including certain inherent estimates, that as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Accounting for derivative contracts at fair value Dominion uses derivative instruments to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. Accounting requirements for derivatives and hedging activities are complex; interpretation of these requirements by standard setting bodies is ongoing. Generally, derivatives are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. In addition, in 2002 and prior years, all energy trading contracts were reported at fair value. As a result of new accounting requirements beginning in 2003, non derivative trading contracts are no longer reported at fair value. Prior period financial statements were not restated for this change. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges are recorded in earnings. The measurement of fair value is based on actively quoted market prices, if available. Otherwise, Dominion seeks indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, measurement involves judgment and estimates. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies considered appropriate by Dominion management. For individual contracts, the use of different assumptions could have a material effect on the contracts estimated fair value. In addition, for hedges of forecasted transactions, Dominion must estimate the expected future cash flows of the forecasted transactions, as well as evaluate the probability of the occurrence and timing of such transactions. Changes in conditions or the occurrence of unforeseen events could affect the timing of recognition in earnings for changes in fair value of certain hedging derivatives. Use of estimates in goodwill impairment testing Dominion is required to test its goodwill for potential impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In performing the test, Dominion estimates the fair value of its reporting units by using discounted cash flow analyses and other valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings for peer group companies, as well as analyses of recent business combinations involving peer group companies. These calculations are dependent on many subjective factors, including managements estimate of future cash flows, the selection of appropriate discount and growth rates, and the selection of peer group companies and recent transactions. The cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made. However, estimates of future cash flows are highly uncertain by nature and may vary significantly from actual results. The underlying assumptions and estimates involved in preparing these fair value calculations could change significantly from period to period. Modifications to any of these assumptions, particularly changes in discount rates and changes in growth rates inherent in managements estimate of future cash flows, could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Substantially all of Dominions goodwill is allocated to its Generation, Energy, Delivery and Exploration & Production reporting units. If the estimates of future cash flows used in the 2003 annual test had been 10% lower, the resulting discounted cash flows would have been greater than the carrying values of each of those reporting units, still indicating no impairment was present. Use of estimates in long lived asset impairment testing Impairment testing for long lived assets and intangible assets with definite lives is required when circumstances indicate those assets may be impaired. In performing the impairment test, Dominion would estimate the future cash flows associated with individual assets or groups of assets. Impairment must be recognized when the undiscounted estimated future cash flows 22 Table of Contents are less than the related assets carrying amount. In those circumstances, the asset must be written down to its fair value, which, in the absence of market price information, may be estimated as the present value of its expected future net cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates used by Dominion are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. In 2003, reflecting a significant revision in long term expectations for potential growth in telecommunications service revenue, Dominion approved a strategy to sell its interest in the telecommunications business. In connection with this change in strategy, Dominion tested the network assets to be sold for impairment, using the revised long term expectations for potential growth. Dominions assets were determined to be substantially impaired and were written down to fair value. Asset retirement obligations Dominion recognizes liabilities for the expected cost of retiring tangible long lived assets for which a legal obligation exists. These asset retirement obligations (AROs) are recognized at fair value as incurred, and are capitalized as part of the cost of the related tangible long lived assets. In the absence of quoted market prices, Dominion estimates the fair value of its AROs using present value techniques, in which estimates of future cash flows associated with retirement activities are discounted using its credit adjusted risk free rate. AROs currently reported on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheet were measured during a period of historically low interest rates. The impact on measurements of new AROs, using different rates in the future, may be significant. A significant portion of Dominions AROs relates to the future decommissioning of its nuclear facilities. At December 31, 2003, nuclear decommissioning AROs totaled $1.3 billion, which represented approximately 80% of Dominions total AROs. Based on their significance, the following discussion of critical assumptions inherent in determining the fair value of AROs relates to those associated with Dominions nuclear decommissioning obligations. Dominion obtains from third party experts periodic site specific base year cost studies in order to estimate the nature, cost and timing of planned decommissioning activities for its utility nuclear plants. Dominion uses internal cost studies for its merchant nuclear facility based on similar methods. These cost studies are based on relevant information available at the time they are performed; however, estimates of future cash flows for extended periods are by nature highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. In addition, these cost estimates are dependent on subjective factors, including the selection of cost escalation rates, which Dominion considers to be a critical assumption. Dominion determines cost escalation rates, which represent projected cost increases over time, due to both general inflation and increases in the cost of specific decommissioning activities, for each of its nuclear facilities. The weighted average cost escalation used by Dominion was 3.18%. The use of alternative rates would have been material to the liabilities recognized. For example, had Dominion increased the cost escalation rate by 0.5% to 3.68%, the amount recognized as of December 31, 2003 for its AROs related to nuclear decommissioning would have been $256 million higher. Employee benefit plans Dominion sponsors noncontributory defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for eligible active employees, retirees and qualifying dependents. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent, in part, on historical information such as employee demographics, the level of contributions made to the plans and earnings on plan assets. Assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, discount rates applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs, also have a significant impact on employee benefit costs. The impact on pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations associated with changes in these factors is generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income over the remaining average service period of plan participants rather than immediately. The selection of discount rates and expected long term rates of return on plan assets are critical assumptions. Dominion determines the expected long term rates of return on plan assets for pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans by using a combination of: n Historical return analysis to determine expected future risk premiums; n Forward looking return expectations derived from the yield on long term bonds and the price earnings ratios of major stock market indices; n Expected inflation and risk free interest rate assumptions and n The types of investments expected to be held by the plans. Assisted by an independent actuary, management develops assumptions, which are then compared to the forecasts of other independent investment advisors to ensure reasonableness. An internal committee selects the final assumptions. Discount rates are determined from analyses performed by a third party actuarial firm of AA/Aa rated bonds with cash flows matching the expected payments to be made under Dominions plans. 23 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the effect of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above: Increase in 2004 NetPeriodic Cost ActuarialAssumption Change inAssumption PensionBenefits OtherPostretirementBenefits (millions) Discount rate (0.25 %) $ 12 $ 6 Rate of return on plan assets (0.25 %) 10 1 Healthcare cost trend rate 1 % N/A 22 Accounting for regulated operations Methods of allocating costs to accounting periods for operations subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation may differ from accounting methods generally applied by nonregulated companies. When the timing of cost recovery prescribed by regulatory authorities differs from the timing of expense recognition used for accounting purposes, Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements may recognize a regulatory asset for expenditures that otherwise would be expensed. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenue associated with certain costs that will be recovered from customers through rates. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future reductions in revenue associated with expected customer credits through rates or amounts collected from customers for expenditures not yet incurred. Management makes assumptions regarding the probability of regulatory asset recovery through future rates approved by applicable regulatory authorities. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of regulatory assets is determined to be less than probable, they would be expensed in the period such assessment is made. See Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for gas and oil operations Dominion follows the full cost method of accounting for gas and oil exploration and production activities prescribed by the SEC. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and subsequently depreciated using a unit of production method. The depreciable base of costs includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved gas and oil reserves, as well as capitalized asset retirement costs, net of projected salvage values. The calculations under this accounting method are dependent on engineering estimates of proved reserve quantities and estimates of the amount and timing of future expenditures to develop the proved reserves. Proved reserves, and the cash flows related to these reserves, are estimated based on a combination of historical data and expected future activity. Actual reserve quantities and development expenditures may differ from the forecasted amounts. In addition, Dominion has significant investments in unproved properties, which are initially excluded from the depreciable base. Until the properties are evaluated, a ratable portion of the capitalized costs is periodically reclassified to the depreciable base, determined on a property by property basis, over terms of underlying leases. Once a property has been evaluated, any remaining capitalized costs are then transferred to the depreciable base. Capitalized costs in the depreciable base are subject to a ceiling test prescribed by the SEC. The test limits capitalized amounts to a ceiling the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the production of proved gas and oil reserves assuming period end hedge adjusted prices. Dominion performs the ceiling test quarterly, on a country by country basis, and would recognize asset impairments to the extent that total capitalized costs exceed the ceiling. Any impairment of excess gas and oil property costs over the ceiling is charged to operations. Given the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, it is possible that Dominions estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves could change in the near term. If natural gas or oil prices have declined as of the date of the ceiling test, or if Dominion revises its estimates of the quantities or timing of future production from its proved reserves, recognition of natural gas and oil property impairments could occur. See Notes 2 and 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for retained interests from securitizations Securitizations involve selling loans to qualifying unconsolidated trusts in exchange for cash and retained interests. Retained interests may include unsecured debt of the trust or retained interests in the transferred loans. Dominion holds retained interests from mortgage and commercial loans securitized in prior years and classifies them as available for sale investments, carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Quarterly, Dominion evaluates the key assumptions relating to valuing the retained interests. Those key assumptions include: loan prepayment speeds, credit losses, forward yield curves and discount rates. Using a published forward yield curve, cash flows, net of adjustments for expected credit losses and loan prepayments, are discounted to determine the estimated fair value of the retained interests. Loan prepayment speeds and credit loss assumptions are based on actual historical results and future estimates. The discount rate is risk adjusted and is periodically compared to industry averages and recent or similar transactions for reasonableness. Changes in interest rates will result in a change in the forward yield curve and can result in a change in the assumed amount of loan prepayments. Changes in general economic conditions may impact actual credit losses, thus impacting the credit loss assumption used in Dominions quarterly evaluation. Income from the residual interests is reported as other revenue. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of impairment charges recorded in 2003, 2002 and 2001. 24 Table of Contents Newly Adopted Accounting Standards in 2003 During 2003, Dominion was required to adopt several new accounting standards which affect the comparability of its Consolidated Financial Statements. The requirements of those standards are discussed in Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is presented to provide an understanding of the financial statement impacts of those standards when comparing the 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to prior years. SFAS No. 143 Adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, on January 1, 2003, affected the comparability of Dominions 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to those of prior years as follows: n Recognition of asset retirement obligations of $1.5 billion compared to a liability of $1.6 billion that had been previously recorded for nuclear decommissioning; n Recognition of $350 million of capitalized asset retirement costs in property, plant and equipment and a $90 million increase in accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, representing the depreciation of such costs through December 31, 2002; n Beginning in 2003, accretion of the AROs, including nuclear decommissioning, is reported in other operations and maintenance expense. Previously, expenses associated with the provision for nuclear decommissioning were reported in depreciation expense and in other expense, as described below and n Beginning in 2003, realized and unrealized earnings of trusts available for funding decommissioning activities at Dominions utility nuclear plants are recorded in other income and other comprehensive income, as appropriate. Previously, as permitted by regulatory authorities, these earnings were recorded in other income with an offsetting charge to expense, also recorded in other income, for the accretion of the decommissioning liability. EITF 02 3 and EITF 03 11 The adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities and the related EITF 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in Issue No. 02 3, changed the timing of recognition in earnings for certain Clearinghouse energy related contracts, as well as the financial statement presentation of gains and losses associated with energy related contracts. The Consolidated Statements of Income for 2002 and 2001 were not restated. Prior to 2003, all energy trading contracts, including non derivative contracts, were recorded at fair value with changes in fair value and settlements reported in revenue on a net basis. Specifically, adopting EITF 02 3 and EITF 03 11 affected the comparability of Dominions 2003 Consolidated Financial Statements to those of prior years as follows: n For derivative contracts not held for trading purposes that involve physical delivery of commodities, unrealized gains and losses and settlements on sales contracts are presented in revenue, while unrealized gains and losses and settlements on purchase contracts are reported in expenses and n Non derivative energy related contracts, previously subject to fair value accounting under prior accounting guidance, are no longer subject to fair value accounting. Dominion recognizes revenue or expense on a gross basis at the time of contract performance, settlement or termination. FIN 46R Upon adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, (FIN 46R) on December 31, 2003 with respect to special purpose entities, Dominion was required to consolidate certain variable interest lessor entities through which Dominion had financed and leased several new power generation projects, as well as its corporate headquarters and aircraft. As a result, the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003 reflects an additional $644 million in net property, plant and equipment and deferred charges and $688 million of related debt. In addition, under FIN 46R, Dominion reports its junior subordinated notes held by five capital trusts as long term debt, rather than the trust preferred securities issued by those trusts. At December 31, 2002, Dominion consolidated the trusts and reported the trust preferred securities on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. 25 Table of Contents Dominions Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 NetIncome DilutedEPS NetIncome DilutedEPS NetIncome DilutedEPS (millions, except per share amounts) Dominion Generation $ 508 $ 1.59 $ 561 $ 1.98 $ 511 $ 2.02 Dominion Energy 350 1.10 268 0.95 268 1.06 Dominion Delivery 453 1.42 422 1.49 311 1.23 Dominion Exploration & Production 415 1.30 380 1.34 320 1.27 Primary operating segments 1,726 5.41 1,631 5.76 1,410 5.58 Corporate and Other (1,408 ) (4.41 ) (269 ) (0.94 ) (866 ) (3.43 ) Consolidated $ 318 $ 1.00 $ 1,362 $ 4.82 $ 544 $ 2.15 Overview 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion earned $1.00 per diluted share on net income of $318 million, a decrease of $3.82 per diluted share and $1,044 million. The per share decrease includes approximately $0.13 of share dilution, reflecting an increase in the average number of common shares outstanding during 2003. The combined net income contribution of Dominions primary operating segments increased $95 million in 2003. This increase largely reflects the benefits of higher natural gas prices during 2003 on sales of Dominions gas and oil production as well as margins associated with gas trading activities. See Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about Dominions operating segments. This increased contribution by the operating segments was more than offset by significant specific charges recognized in 2003 and reported in the Corporate and Other segment, including: n $750 million of after tax losses associated with Dominions telecommunications business, which is being discontinued; n $122 million of after tax incremental expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel; n $96 million of after tax charges for DCI asset impairments; n $69 million of after tax charges for asset impairments related to certain investments held for sale; n $104 million of after tax charges associated with the termination of long term power purchase agreements and the restructuring of power sales agreements and n $16 million of after tax severance costs for workforce reductions. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion earned $4.82 per diluted share on net income of $1.4 billion, an increase of $818 million and $2.67 per diluted share compared to 2001. Per share amounts also reflect approximately $0.57 of share dilution, due to an increase in the average number of common shares outstanding during 2002. The combined net income contribution of Dominions primary operating segments increased $222 million in 2002. These results largely reflect the impact of favorable weather and customer growth on utility operations and the inclusion of a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition. In addition to the increased contribution by the operating segments, the increase in net income included the effect of discontinuing the amortization of goodwill in 2002 ($95 million) and the impact of significant specific charges recognized in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. These items were reported in the Corporate and Other segment and included: n $208 million of after tax losses from the impairment of DCI financial assets and the sale of a DCI subsidiary; n A $136 million after tax charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts; n A $97 million after tax charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron and n A $68 million after tax charge for restructuring activities. Analysis of Consolidated Operations Presented below are selected amounts related to Dominions results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales $ 4,876 $ 4,856 $ 4,619 Regulated gas sales 1,258 876 1,409 Nonregulated electric sales 1,130 1,017 1,022 Nonregulated gas sales 1,718 778 1,073 Gas transportation and storage 740 705 702 Gas and oil production 1,503 1,334 1,057 Other 853 652 676 Operating Expenses Electric fuel and energy purchases, net 1,667 1,447 1,369 Purchased electric capacity 607 691 680 Purchased gas, net 2,175 1,159 1,822 Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases 468 159 219 Restructuring and other acquisition related costs (8 ) 105 Other operations and maintenance 2,908 2,198 2,938 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,216 1,258 1,245 Other taxes 476 429 395 Other income (loss) (40 ) 103 126 Interest and related charges 975 945 997 Income tax expense 597 $ 681 $ 370 Loss from discontinued operations (642 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 11 26 Table of Contents An analysis of Dominions results of operations for 2003 compared to 2002 and 2002 compared to 2001 follows. 2003 vs. 2002 Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales revenue increased less than 1% to $4.9 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $54 million increase from customer growth associated with new customer connections; n A $42 million increase from higher fuel rate recoveries. Fuel rate recoveries were generally offset by a comparable increase in fuel expense and did not materially affect net income and n A $103 million decrease associated with milder weather. Regulated gas sales revenue increased 44% to $1.3 billion, primarily due to: n Recovery of higher gas prices in rates ($289 million) and n Comparably colder weather in the first and fourth quarters of 2003 ($79 million), reflecting more heating degree days in 2003. The increase in regulated gas sales revenue was largely offset by a comparable increase in purchased gas expense. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased 11% to $1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $77 million increase in merchant generation revenue, reflecting higher volumes ($59 million) and higher prices ($18 million). The increase in volumes can be attributed to fewer outage days at the Millstone Power Station in 2003 and a full years sales from generating units placed into service during 2002; n A $76 million increase in retail energy sales, primarily as a result of customer growth, including the acquisition of new customers previously served by other energy companies during 2003 and n A $43 million decrease in Clearinghouse electric revenue, net of applicable purchases, due to unfavorable changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for trading purposes and the impact of adopting EITF 02 3, partially offset by increased margins. Nonregulated gas sales revenue increased 121% to $1.7 billion, primarily reflecting: n An $82 million increase in revenue from retail energy marketing operations, reflecting higher prices ($78 million) and higher volumes ($4 million); n A $659 million increase in revenue from field services operations, reflecting higher prices ($467 million) and higher volumes ($192 million) and n A $208 million increase in Clearinghouse gas revenue, net of applicable purchases, due to higher margins, favorable changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for trading purposes and the impact of adopting EITF 02 3. The increase included a $54 million increase associated with the economic hedges, described further in the discussion of Dominion Energys results. Gas and oil production revenue increased 13% to $1.5 billion primarily due to higher average realized prices for gas and oil. It also includes $43 million of revenue recognized related to deliveries under a volumetric production payment transaction. Other revenue increased 31% to $853 million, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $49 million increase in coal sales revenue; n A $115 million increase, resulting from a change in the classification of coal purchases from other revenue to expense under EITF 02 3 beginning in 2003; n $94 million of sales of emissions credits that began in 2003; n A $26 million increase in sales of extracted products and n An $81 million decrease in revenue associated with Dominion financial services operations, reflecting the winding down under Dominions divestiture strategy. Operating Expenses and Other Items Electric fuel and energy purchases expense increased 15% to $1.7 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $154 million increase associated with nonregulated energy marketing operations, primarily resulting from higher volumes purchased and the reclassification of certain purchase contracts after the implementation of EITF 02 3 and n A $68 million increase related to regulated utility operations, including $42 million associated with rate recovery in 2003 revenue and the recognition of $14 million of previously deferred fuel costs that will not be recovered under the settlement of the Virginia jurisdictional fuel rate case. Purchased electric capacity expense decreased 12% to $607 million, reflecting scheduled rate reductions on certain non utility generation supply contracts ($54 million) and lower purchases of capacity for utility operations ($30 million). Purchased gas expense increased 88% to $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $647 million increase associated with field services operations, reflecting higher prices ($459 million) and higher volumes ($188 million) and n A $363 million increase associated with regulated gas operations discussed above in Regulated gas sales revenue. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases expense increased 194% to $468 million, reflecting primarily the reclassification of certain purchase contracts for transportation, storage, coal and emissions allowances after the adoption of EITF 02 3. Other operations and maintenance expense rose 32% to $2.9 billion, primarily reflecting the following specific increases: n Incremental restoration expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel ($197 million); 27 Table of Contents n Cost of terminating power purchase contracts used in electric utility operations ($105 million); n Asset and goodwill impairments associated with DCIs financial services operations ($108 million); n Goodwill impairment associated with the purchase of the remaining interest in the telecommunications joint venture held by another party ($60 million); n A charge for the restructuring of certain electric sales contracts recorded as derivative assets ($64 million); n Accretion expense for asset retirement obligations ($86 million); n Decrease in net pension credits and an increase in other postretirement benefit costs ($87 million) and n Expenses associated with nuclear outages for refueling in 2003 ($13 million). These increases were partially offset by a decrease attributable to lower outage costs at Millstone ($28 million). Other taxes increased 11% to $476 million, primarily due to higher severance taxes and gross receipts taxes, as well as the effect of a favorable resolution of sales and use tax issues in 2002. Such benefits were not recognized in 2003. Other income decreased 138% to a net loss of $40 million, which included the following items: n $57 million of costs associated with the acquisition of DFV senior notes; n $27 million for the reallocation of equity losses between Dominion and the minority interest owner of DFV; n $62 million for the impairment of certain equity method investments and n A $32 million increase in net realized losses associated with nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments. Partially offsetting these reductions to other income was an increase of $28 million, reflecting equity losses on Dominions investment in DFV in 2002; DFV was consolidated beginning in the first quarter of 2003. In 2003, the operating losses of DFVs subsidiary, DTI, were classified in discontinued operations. Income taxes Dominions effective tax rate increased 5.3% to 38.6% for 2003. The increase primarily resulted from the expiration of nonconventional fuel credits beginning in 2003, an increase in the valuation allowance related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the telecommunications investment and federal loss carryforwards at CNG International and DCI that are not expected to be utilized, partially offset by a reduction in Canadian tax rates applied to deferred tax balances. Loss from discontinued operations reflects the results of operations of Dominions telecommunications business, which is classified as held for sale. The loss includes the following: n Impairment of network assets of $566 million. Dominion has not recognized any deferred tax benefits related to the impairment charges, since realization of tax benefits will be dependent upon Dominions future tax profile and taxable earnings. In addition, Dominion also increased the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets recognized by its telecommunications investment, resulting in a $48 million increase in deferred income tax expense; and n DTI operating losses of $28 million. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles During 2003 Dominion was required to adopt several new accounting standards, resulting in a net after tax gain of $11 million which included the following: n A $180 million after tax gain (SFAS No. 143), partially offset by; n A $67 million after tax loss (EITF 02 3); n A $75 million after tax loss (Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. C20) and n A $27 million after tax loss (FIN 46R). 2002 vs. 2001 Operating Revenue Regulated electric sales revenue increased 5% to $4.9 billion, primarily due to: n Favorable weather conditions ($195 million), reflecting increased cooling and heating degree days in 2002; n Customer growth ($60 million) and n Fuel rate recoveries ($65 million), which were generally offset in fuel expense and do not materially affect net income. These increases were partially offset by other factors not separately measurable, such as the impact of economic conditions on customer usage, as well as variations in seasonal rate premiums and discounts. Regulated gas sales revenue decreased 38% to $876 million, reflecting $550 million for lower gas cost recoveries attributable to lower prices and customer migration, partially offset by the impact of slightly colder weather and other factors. The decline was offset by a corresponding $491 million decrease in purchased gas expense, reflecting the matching of purchased gas costs and gas cost recoveries in rates, and increased gas transportation service revenue. Nonregulated electric sales revenue increased 1% to $1.0 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $21 million decrease in sales revenue from Dominions merchant generation fleet, reflecting a $201 million decline due to lower prices partially offset by sales from assets acquired and constructed in 2002 and the inclusion of Millstone operations for all of 2002; n A $74 million decrease in revenue from the wholesale marketing of utility generation. Due to the higher demand of utility service territory customers during 2002, less production from utility plant generation was available for profitable sale in the wholesale market; n A $71 million increase in revenue from retail energy sales, reflecting primarily customer growth over the prior year and n A $33 million increase in Clearinghouse electric revenue, net of applicable trading purchases, reflecting the effect of favorable price changes on unsettled contracts and higher margins. 28 Table of Contents Nonregulated gas sales revenue decreased 28% to $778 million, primarily reflecting: n A $261 million decrease in sales by Dominions field services and retail energy marketing operations, reflecting to a large extent declining prices and n A $51 million decrease in Clearinghouse gas revenue, net of applicable trading purchases, due to unfavorable price changes on unsettled contracts and lower overall margins. Those losses were partially offset by contributions from higher trading volumes in gas and oil markets. The decrease included a $70 million revenue decrease associated with the economic hedges. Gas and oil production revenue increased 26% to $1.3 billion, reflecting higher overall production as a result of the inclusion of a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition and Dominions ongoing drilling programs. Average realized gas and oil prices, including the effects of hedging, decreased for the comparative years. Operating Expenses and Other Items Purchased gas expense decreased 36% to $1.2 billion, primarily reflecting: n A $196 million decrease associated with field services and gas transmission operations, primarily reflecting lower prices and n A $489 million decrease associated with regulated gas operations discussed above in Regulated gas sales revenue. Liquids, pipeline capacity and other purchases expense decreased 28% to $159 million, primarily reflecting comparably lower levels of rate recoveries of certain costs of transmission operations in the current year period. The difference between actual expenses and amounts recovered in the period are deferred pending future rate adjustments. Other operations and maintenance expense decreased 25% to $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting the following expenses incurred in 2001 that did not recur in 2002: n A $281 million charge for impairments of certain financial assets held by DCI; n $151 million charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron; n A $220 million charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts and n A $40 million loss on the sale of assets by DCI. Depreciation expense increased 1% to $1.3 billion, primarily reflecting the combined effects of: n A $95 million decrease resulting from discontinued amortization of goodwill effective January 1, 2002; n A $58 million decrease related to the extension of estimated useful lives of most fossil fuel stations and electric transmission and distribution properties in 2002 and nuclear properties in 2001; n $138 million of additional depreciation, depletion and amortization expense recognized in connection with a full year of operations after the Louis Dreyfus acquisition and n A $28 million increase associated with other new plant additions. Other taxes increased 9% to $429 million, primarily due to higher severance taxes associated with a full year of Louis Dreyfus operations. In addition, Dominion incurred higher property taxes on new asset additions, partially offset by lower gross receipts taxes, primarily reflecting lower regulated gas sales revenue. Other income decreased 18% to $103 million, primarily reflecting $27 million of equity losses from DFV. Income taxes Dominions effective income tax rate decreased, reflecting the net $33 million effect of including certain subsidiaries in Dominions consolidated state income tax returns. In addition, the effective tax rate decreased for foreign earnings, the discontinuance of goodwill amortization for book purposes and other factors. Outlook Dominion Dominion believes its operating businesses will provide growth in net income on a per share basis, including the impact of higher expected average shares outstanding, in 2004 and 2005. Growth factors for 2004 include: n Potential increase in regulated electric sales, as compared to 2003, assuming Dominions utility service territories experience a return to normal weather in 2004; n Continued growth in utility customers; n Reduced electric capacity expenses, resulting from terminated contracts; n Lower interest expense as a result of refinanced debt; n Higher expected levels of gas and oil production as a result of Devils Tower and Front Runner becoming operational; n Improved contributions from Millstones operations, resulting from expected higher capacity factors and favorable sales prices; n Higher contribution from Cove Point operations; n Expected Six Sigma benefits and n Specific costs and reductions to earnings in 2003 that are not expected to recur in 2004, including: n Lost revenue due to Hurricane Isabel; n The Virginia fuel rate case settlement and n Costs associated with refinancing callable debt. For 2004, the growth factors will be partially offset by: n Decreased pension credits and increased other postretirement benefit costs; n Higher expected operating expenses for gas and oil production and n Normalization of Clearinghouse contribution. Growth factors for 2005 include: n Gas and oil production growth, reflecting a full year of Devils Tower and Front Runner operations; n A full year of operations of the Kewaunee power plant, expected to be acquired in the second half of 2004; n Continued growth in utility customers; n Expanded operations of Cove Point and n Expected Six Sigma benefits. 29 Table of Contents For 2005, the growth factors are expected to be partially offset by: n Increased interest expense and n Inflation and other factors. Based on these projections, Dominion estimates that cash flow from operations will increase in 2004, as compared to 2003. Management believes this increase, coupled with reductions in discretionary and developmental capital expenditures previously planned for power generation and gas and oil exploration and production projects, will provide sufficient cash flow to maintain or grow Dominions current dividend to common shareholders. Segment Results of Operations Dominion Generation Dominion Generation includes the generation operations of Dominions electric utility and merchant fleet. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 508 $ 561 $ 511 EPS contribution $ 1.59 $ 1.98 $ 2.02 Electricity supplied (million mwhrs) 105 101 95 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Generations operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase (Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Revenue reallocation $ (57 ) $ (0.20 ) Regulated electric sales: Weather (42 ) (0.15 ) $ 82 $ 0.32 Customer growth 23 0.08 25 0.10 Merchant generation margins 18 0.06 (122 ) (0.48 ) Capacity expenses 29 0.10 8 0.03 Fuel settlement (9 ) (0.03 ) Utility outages (13 ) (0.04 ) 11 0.04 Other (2 ) 46 0.19 Share dilution (0.21 ) (0.24 ) Change in net income contribution $ (53 ) $ (0.39 ) $ 50 $ (0.04 ) 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Generations net income contribution decreased $53 million over 2002, primarily reflecting: n A change in the allocation of electric utility base rate revenue beginning in 2003 among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery; n A decrease in regulated electric sales due to comparably milder summer weather, resulting in a decrease in cooling degree days in 2003, partially offset by an increase in heating degree days in 2003; n An increase in regulated electric sales due to customer growth in the electric franchise service area, primarily reflecting an increase in new residential customers; n Scheduled decreases in capacity expenses under certain power purchase agreements; n Recognition of previously deferred fuel costs in connection with the Virginia fuel rate settlement and n Increased utility outage expenses, reflecting the refueling activities at the utility nuclear facilities in 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Generations net income contribution rose $50 million over 2001, primarily reflecting: n An increase in regulated electric sales due to comparably warmer summer weather, resulting in an increase in cooling degree days; n An increase in regulated electric sales due to customer growth in the electric franchise service area, primarily reflecting an increase in new residential customers and n A decrease in merchant generation sales primarily as a result of lower prices in 2002, partially offset by a full year of Millstone operations. Dominion Energy Dominion Energy includes Dominions electric transmission, natural gas transmission pipeline and storage businesses, certain natural gas production, as well as Clearinghouse (energy trading and marketing) and field services (aggregation of gas supply and related wholesale activities) operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 350 $ 268 $ 268 EPS contribution $ 1.10 $ 0.95 $ 1.06 Gas transportation throughput (bcf) 612 597 553 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Energys operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase(Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Clearinghouse $ 16 $ 0.06 $ (4 ) $ (0.02 ) Economic hedges 33 0.12 (43 ) (0.17 ) Electric transmission operations 11 0.04 16 0.06 Cove Point operations 9 0.03 Revenue reallocation 7 0.02 Interest (5 ) (0.02 ) 6 0.02 Other 11 0.04 25 0.11 Share dilution (0.14 ) (0.11 ) Change in net income contribution $ 82 $ 0.15 $ (0.11 ) 30 Table of Contents 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Energys net income rose $82 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n An increase in the contribution of Clearinghouse operations, reflecting a $43 million increase in margins on settled contracts, partially offset by a $27 million decrease in net mark to market gains on derivative contracts; n An increase attributable to a reduction in net losses on the economic hedges of Dominion Exploration & Production gas production described in Selected Information Energy Trading Activities below; n A change in the allocation of electric base rate revenue among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery effective January 1, 2003; n An increase in electric transmission contribution due to customer growth and other factors, partially offset by weather and n The operations of Cove Point, which was reactivated during 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Energys net income contribution did not change compared to 2001, and reflected: n A decrease in the contribution of Clearinghouse operations, reflecting a $54 million decrease in net mark to market gains on derivative contracts, partially offset by a $47 million increase in margins on settled contracts; n Net losses associated with the economic hedges of Dominion Exploration & Production gas production; n An increase in electric transmission contribution, reflecting the impact of customer growth and favorable weather conditions as well as reduced depreciation expense, resulting from the extension of estimated useful lives of transmission assets and n A decrease in interest expense, resulting primarily from lower interest rates. Selected Information Energy Trading Activities As previously described, Dominion Energy manages Dominions energy trading, hedging and arbitrage activities through the Clearinghouse. Dominion believes these operations complement its integrated energy businesses and facilitate its risk management activities. As part of these operations, the Clearinghouse enters into contracts for purchases and sales of energy related commodities, including natural gas, electricity, and oil. Settlements of contracts may require physical delivery of the underlying commodity or cash settlement. The Clearinghouse enters into contracts with the objective of benefiting from changes in prices. For example, after entering into a contract to purchase a commodity, the Clearinghouse typically enters into a sales contract, or a combination of sales contracts, with quantities and delivery or settlement terms that are identical or very similar to those of the purchase contract. When the purchase and sales contracts are settled either by physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by net cash settlement, the Clearinghouse may receive a net cash margin (a realized gain), or may pay a net cash margin (a realized loss). Clearinghouse management continually monitors its contract positions, considering location and timing of delivery or settlement for each energy commodity in relation to market price activity, seeking arbitrage opportunities. In addition, the Clearinghouse held a portfolio of financial derivative instruments to manage Dominions price risk associated with a portion of its anticipated sales of 2003 natural gas production that had not been considered in the hedging activities of the Dominion Exploration & Production segment (economic hedges). For the year ended December 31, 2003, Dominion Energy recognized a net loss of $10 million on the economic hedges. As anticipated, Dominion Exploration & Production sold sufficient volumes of natural gas in 2003 at market prices, which, when combined with the settlement of the economic hedges, resulted in a range of prices for those sales contemplated by the risk management strategy. A summary of the changes in the unrealized gains and losses recognized for Dominions energy related derivative instruments held for trading purposes, including the economic hedges, during 2003 follows: Amount (millions) Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2002 $ 170 Reclassification of contracts adoption of EITF 02 3: Non derivative energy contracts (110 ) Derivative energy contracts, not held for trading purposes (81 ) (21 ) Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 41 Net unrealized gain at inception of contracts initiated during the period Changes in valuation techniques Other changes in fair value 13 Net unrealized gain at December 31, 2003 $ 33 The balance of net unrealized gains and losses recognized for Dominions energy related derivative instruments held for trading purposes, including the economic hedges at December 31, 2003, is summarized in the following table based on the approach used to determine fair value and contract settlement or delivery dates: Maturity Based on Contract Settlementor Delivery Date(s) Source of Fair Value Less than1year 1 2years 2 3years 3 5years InExcessof 5years Total (millions) Actively quoted(1) $ (14 ) $ 24 $ 4 $ 14 Other external sources(2) 10 6 $ 3 19 Models and other valuation methods(3) Total $ (14 ) $ 34 $ 10 $ 3 $ 33 (1) Exchange traded and over the counter contracts. (2) Values based on prices from over the counter broker activity and industry services and, where applicable, conventional option pricing models. (3) Values based on Dominions estimate of future commodity prices when information from external sources is not available and use of internally developed models, reflecting option pricing theory, discounted cash flow concepts, etc. 31 Table of Contents Dominion Delivery Dominion Delivery includes Dominions electric and gas distribution and customer service business, as well as retail energy marketing operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 453 $ 422 $ 311 EPS contribution $ 1.42 $ 1.49 $ 1.23 Electricity delivered (million mwhrs) 75 75 72 Gas throughput (bcf) 373 364 357 Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Deliverys operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase (Decrease) Increase (Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Revenue reallocation $ 50 $ 0.18 Customer growth utility operations 10 0.03 $ 10 $ 0.04 Weather (5 ) (0.02 ) 50 0.20 Interest expense 14 0.06 Income taxes (9 ) (0.03 ) 18 0.07 Other (15 ) (0.05 ) 19 0.07 Share dilution (0.18 ) (0.18 ) Change in net income contribution $ 31 $ (0.07 ) $ 111 $ 0.26 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Deliverys net income contribution rose $31 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n A change in the allocation of electric base rate revenue among Dominion Generation, Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery effective January 1, 2003; n Customer growth in the electric and gas franchise service area, primarily reflecting new residential electric customers; n A decrease in regulated electric sales due to comparably milder weather in Dominions electric utility service territories offset by the increase in regulated gas sales due to comparably colder weather in Dominions gas utility service territories; n A decrease in pension credits and an increase in other postretirement benefit costs and n The deferral of 2003 bad debt expenses as regulatory assets, pending future recovery under a bad debt rider approved by the Public Utility Commission of Ohio, effective January 1, 2003. 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Deliverys net income contribution rose $111 million over 2001, primarily reflecting: n Customer growth in the electric and gas franchise service area, primarily reflecting new residential electric customers; n Comparably warmer weather, resulting in increased summer sales in Dominions electric service territories and comparably colder winter weather, resulting in increased sales in both electric and gas service territories; n A decrease in interest expense, resulting primarily from lower interest rates and n A decrease in the effective income tax rate for reasons described for Dominion on a consolidated basis. Dominion Exploration & Production Dominion Exploration & Production manages Dominions gas and oil exploration, development and production business. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS) Net income contribution $ 415 $ 380 $ 320 EPS contribution $ 1.30 $ 1.34 $ 1.27 Gas production (bcf) 384 385 283 Oil production (million bbls) 9 10 7 Average realized prices with hedging results:(1) Gas (per mcf)(2) $ 3.95 $ 3.40 $ 3.80 Oil (per bbl) 24.29 23.28 23.42 Average prices without hedging results: Gas (per mcf)(2) 4.99 3.03 3.87 Oil (per bbl) 29.82 24.44 23.53 DD&A (per mcfe) $ 1.20 $ 1.12 $ 1.08 Average production (lifting) cost(per mcfe) 0.80 0.60 0.65 (1) Excludes the effects of the economic hedges discussed in the operating results of Dominion Energy under Selected Information Energy Trading Activities. (2) Excludes $43 million of revenue recognized in 2003 under the volumetric production payment agreement described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Presented below are the key factors impacting Dominion Exploration & Productions operating results: 2003 vs. 2002 2002 vs. 2001 Increase(Decrease) Increase(Decrease) Amount EPS Amount EPS (millions, except EPS) Gas and oil prices $ 133 $ 0.47 $ (88 ) $ (0.35 ) Gas and oil production (18 ) (0.06 ) 277 1.10 VPP revenue 27 0.10 DD&A rate (22 ) (0.08 ) 14 0.06 DD&A production 3 0.01 (105 ) (0.42 ) Operations and maintenance (41 ) (0.15 ) (21 ) (0.08 ) Severance taxes (18 ) (0.06 ) (7 ) (0.03 ) Income taxes (20 ) (0.07 ) (5 ) (0.02 ) Other (9 ) (0.03 ) (5 ) (0.03 ) Share dilution $ (0.17 ) $ (0.16 ) Change in net income contribution $ 35 $ (0.04 ) $ 60 $ 0.07 32 Table of Contents 2003 vs. 2002 Dominion Exploration & Productions net income contribution rose $35 million from 2002, primarily reflecting: n Higher average realized prices for gas and oil; n Lower oil production, reflecting declines in Gulf of Mexico shelf and deepwater production. Lower gas production, reflecting the sale of minerals rights under a volumetric production payment agreement (VPP) and declines in Rocky Mountain and Michigan production, was largely offset by increased Gulf of Mexico gas production; n A higher rate for depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2003, primarily reflecting increased acquisition, finding and development costs; nHigher operations and maintenance expenses which increased in connection with overall higher commodity prices in 2003, that caused an increase in the demand for equipment, labor and services; n Higher severance taxes, resulting from higher gas and oil revenue associated with higher commodity prices in a higher commodity price environment and n Higher income taxes, primarily reflecting the expiration of Section 29 production tax credits beginning in 2003 ($34 million), partially offset by a reduction in tax rates applied to deferred taxes associated with Canadian operations ($14 million). 2002 vs. 2001 Dominion Exploration & Productions net income contribution rose $60 million, primarily reflecting a full year of Louis Dreyfus operations following its acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2001. These new operations, as well as ongoing drilling programs, resulted in increased gas and oil production, and higher operating expenses, such as depreciation, depletion and amortization and gas well expenses. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes the operations of DCI, DFV and related telecommunications operations, and Dominions corporate and other operations. 2003 2002 2001 (millions, except EPS amounts) Specific items attributable to operating segments $ (221 ) $ 7 $ (297 ) DCI operations (95 ) 14 (225 ) Telecommunications operations(1) (750 ) (26 ) Other corporate operations (342 ) (264 ) (344 ) Total net expense (1,408 ) (269 ) (866 ) Earnings per share impact $ (4.41 ) $ (0.94 ) $ (3.43 ) (1) $642 million is classified as discontinued operations in 2003. Specific Items Attributable to Operating Segments 2003 During 2003, Dominion reported in the Corporate and Other segment the following items attributable to its operating segments: n $21 million net after tax gain representing the cumulative effect of adopting new accounting principles, as described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including: n SFAS No. 143: a $180 million after tax gain attributable to: Dominion Generation ($188 million after tax gain); Dominion Exploration & Production ($7 million after tax loss); and Dominion Delivery ($1 million after tax loss); n EITF 02 3: a $67 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Energy; n SFAS No. 133 Interpretation C20: a $75 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Generation and n FIN 46R: a $17 million after tax loss attributable to Dominion Generation; n $197 million of operations and maintenance expense ($122 million after tax), representing incremental restoration expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel, attributable primarily to Dominion Delivery; n A $105 million ($65 million after tax) charge for the termination of power purchase contracts attributable to Dominion Generation; n A $64 million ($39 million after tax) charge for the restructuring and termination of certain electric sales contracts attributable to Dominion Generation and n $28 million ($16 million after tax) of severance costs for workforce reductions during the first quarter of 2003, attributable to: n Dominion Generation ($8 million after tax) n Dominion Energy ($2 million after tax), n Dominion Delivery ($4 million after tax), n Dominion Exploration & Production ($1 million after tax) and n Corporate and other ($1 million after tax); Specific Items Attributable to Operating Segments 2001 During 2001, Dominion reported in the Corporate and Other segment the following items attributable to its operating segments: n A $68 million after tax charge for restructuring activities, including employee severance and termination benefits and costs associated with the termination of leases, attributable to: n Dominion Generation ($8 million after tax); n Dominion Energy ($9 million after tax); n Dominion Delivery ($44 million after tax) and n Dominion Exploration & Production ($3 million after tax); n A $97 million after tax charge for credit exposure associated with the bankruptcy of Enron attributable to: n Dominion Exploration & Production ($99 million after tax); n Dominion Energy ($2 million after tax credit); 33 Table of Contents n A $136 million after tax charge related to the termination of certain long term power purchase contracts attributable to Dominion Generation. DCI Operations DCI recognized a net loss in 2003, resulting primarily from the recognition of the following: n $51 million ($33 million after tax) impairment of retained interests from securitizations; n $34 million ($22 million after tax) impairment of goodwill and other investments; n $23 million ($15 million after tax) recognized in connection with the sale of financial assets during the fourth quarter of 2003 and n $26 million valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. DCI earned $14 million in 2002, compared to a net loss of $225 million in 2001. The net loss in 2001, resulted primarily from the recognition of the following: n $102 million ($66 million after tax) impairment of retained interests from securitizations; n $94 million ($61 million after tax) impairment of loans receivable and n $85 million ($55 million after tax) impairment of other investments. Telecommunications Operations Dominions loss from its telecommunications business increased $724 million to $750 million in 2003, primarily reflecting: n $566 million associated with the impairment of network assets and related inventories. Dominion has not recognized any deferred tax benefits related to the impairment charges, since realization of tax benefits will be dependent upon Dominions future tax profile; n A $48 million increase in deferred tax expense as a result of the increase in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets; n Dominions purchase of the remaining equity interest in DFV held by another party for $62 million in December 2003, $60 million of which was recorded as goodwill and impaired; n $57 million ($35 million after tax) for the costs associated with Dominions acquisition of DFV senior notes and n $41 million of after tax operating losses. Other Corporate Operations The net loss associated with other corporate operations for 2003 increased by $78 million as compared to 2002, primarily reflecting the impairment of certain investments held for sale. Included in these investments was a small generation facility in Kauai, Hawaii that was sold in December 2003. The net loss associated with other corporate operations decreased in 2002 as compared to 2001, primarily as a result of discontinuing the amortization of goodwill beginning January 1, 2002. Dominions Sources and Uses of Cash Dominion and its subsidiaries depend on both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided by operating activities are generally satisfied with proceeds from short term borrowings. Long term cash needs are met through sales of securities and additional long term financing. At December 31, 2003, Dominion had cash and cash equivalents of $126 million with $655 million of unused capacity under its credit facilities. For long term financing needs, amounts available for debt or equity offerings under currently effective shelf registrations totaled $4.4 billion at March 1, 2004. Cash Provided By Operations As presented on Dominions Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, net cash flows from operating activities were $2.4 billion for each of the years 2003, 2002 and 2001. Dominions management believes that its operations provide a stable source of cash flow sufficient to contribute to planned levels of capital expenditures and maintain or grow current shareholder dividend levels. Dominions operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact the timing or amounts of operating cash flow, including: n Unusual weather and its effect on energy sales to customers and energy commodity prices; n Extreme weather events that could disrupt gas and oil production or cause catastrophic damage to Dominions electric distribution and transmission systems; n Exposure to unanticipated changes in prices for energy commodities purchased or sold, including the effect on derivative instruments that may require the use of funds to post margin deposits with counterparties; n Effectiveness of Dominions risk management activities and underlying assessment of market conditions and related factors, including energy commodity prices, basis, liquidity, volatility, counterparty credit risk, availability of generation and transmission capacity, currency exchange rates and interest rates; n The cost of replacement electric energy in the event of longer than expected or unscheduled generation outages; n Contractual or regulatory restrictions on transfers of funds among Dominion and its subsidiaries; and n Timeliness of recovery for costs subject to cost of service utility rate regulation. Credit Risk Dominions exposure to potential concentrations of credit risk results primarily from its energy trading, marketing and hedging activities and sales of gas and oil production. Presented below is a summary of Dominions gross and net credit exposure as of December 31, 2003 for these activities. Dominion calculates its gross credit exposure for each counterparty as the unrealized 34 Table of Contents fair value of derivative contracts plus any outstanding receivables (net of payables, where netting agreements exist), prior to the application of collateral.  GrossCreditExposure CreditCollateral NetCreditExposure (millions) Investment grade(1) $ 404 $ 404 Non investment grade(2) 60 $ 14 46 No external ratings: Internally rated investment grade(3) 306 306 Internally rated non investment grade(4) 109 109 Total $ 879 $ 14 $ 865 (1) Designations as investment grade are based upon minimum credit ratings assigned by Moodys and Standard & Poors. The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 13% of the total gross credit exposure. (2) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 4% of the total gross credit exposure. (3) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 24% of the total gross credit exposure. (4) The five largest counterparty exposures, combined, for this category represented approximately 5% of the total gross credit exposure. Cash Provided By Financing Activities Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) and CNG (collectively the Dominion Companies) rely on bank and capital markets as a significant source of funding for capital requirements not satisfied by cash provided by the companies operations. As discussed further in the Credit Ratings section below, the Dominion Companies ability to borrow funds or issue securities and the return demanded by investors are affected by the issuing companys credit ratings. In addition, the raising of external capital is subject to certain regulatory approvals, including authorization by the SEC and, in the case of Virginia Power, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission). During 2003, 2002 and 2001, net cash flows from financing activities were $853 million, $1.3 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. During 2003, the Dominion Companies issued long term debt (net of exchanged debt) and common stock totaling approximately $4.4 billion. The proceeds were used primarily to repay other debt and to finance capital expenditures. Credit Facilities and Short Term Debt The Dominion Companies use short term debt, primarily commercial paper, to fund working capital requirements and as bridge financing for acquisitions, if applicable. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly during the course of the year, depending upon the timing and amount of cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. At December 31, 2003, the Dominion Companies had committed lines of credit totaling $3.0 billion. Although there were no loans outstanding, these lines of credit support commercial paper borrowings and letter of credit issuances. At December 31, 2003, the Dominion Companies had the following short term debt outstanding and capacity available under credit facilities: FacilityLimit OutstandingCommercialPaper OutstandingLetters ofCredit FacilityCapacityAvailable (millions) 364 day joint revolving credit facility $ 1,250 Three year joint revolving credit facility 750 Total joint credit facilities(1) 2,000 $ 1,440 $ 85 $ 475 364 day CNG credit facility(2) 1,000 820 180 Totals $ 3,000 $ 1,440 $ 905 $ 655 (1) The joint credit facilities support borrowings by the Dominion Companies. The 364 day revolving credit facility was executed in May 2003 and terminates in May 2004. The three year revolving credit facility was executed in May 2002 and terminates in May 2005. (2) The credit facility is used to support the issuance of letters of credit and commercial paper by CNG to fund collateral requirements under its gas and oil hedging program. The facility was executed in August 2003 and terminates in August 2004. Dominions financial policy precludes issuing commercial paper in excess of its supporting lines of credit. At December 31, 2003, the total amount of commercial paper outstanding was $1,440 million and the total amount of letter of credit issuances was $905 million, leaving approximately $655 million available for issuance. The Dominion Companies are required to pay minimal annual commitment fees to maintain the credit facilities. In addition, these credit agreements contain various terms and conditions that could affect the Dominion Companies ability to borrow under these facilities. They include maximum debt to total capital ratios, material adverse change clauses and cross default provisions. All of the credit facilities include a defined maximum total debt to total capital ratio. As of December 31, 2003, the calculated ratio for the Dominion Companies, pursuant to the terms of the agreements, was as follows: Company MaximumRatio ActualRatio(1) Dominion Resources, Inc. 65 % 56 % Virginia Power 60 % 52 % CNG 60 % 52 % (1) Indebtedness as defined by the bank agreements excludes certain junior subordinated notes payable to affiliated trusts and mandatorily convertible securities that are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These provisions apply separately to Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power and CNG. If any one of the Dominion Companies or any of that specific companys material subsidiaries fail to make payment on various debt obligations in excess of $25 million, the lenders could require that respective company to accelerate its repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the credit facility and the lenders could terminate their commit 35 Table of Contents ment to lend funds to that company. Accordingly, any defaults on indebtedness by CNG or any of its material subsidiaries would not affect the lenders commitment to Virginia Power. Similarly, any defaults on indebtedness by Virginia Power or any of its material subsidiaries would not affect the lenders commitment to CNG. However, any default by either CNG or Virginia Power would also affect in like manner the lenders commitment to Dominion Resources, Inc. under the joint credit agreements. Although the joint credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses, the participating lenders, under those specific provisions, cannot refuse to advance funds to any of the Dominion Companies for the repurchase of its outstanding commercial paper. Common Stock During 2003, Dominion issued 17 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $990 million. Of this amount, 11 million shares and proceeds of $683 million resulted from a public offering. The remainder of the shares issued and proceeds received were through Dominion Direct&reg; (a dividend reinvestment and open enrollment direct stock purchase plan), employee savings plans and the exercise of employee stock options. Long Term Debt During 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries issued the following long term debt: Type Principal Rate Maturity IssuingCompany (millions) Senior notes $ 2,120 2.125% to6.30% 2005 to2033 DominionResources, Inc. Senior notes 500 Variable 2013 DominionResources, Inc. Senior notes 200 5.00% 2014 CNG Senior notes 1,055 4.10% to5.25% 2010 to2038 Virginia Power Total long term debt issued 3,875 Less: direct exchange(1) (500 ) Total long term debt issued, excluding direct exchanges $ 3,375 (1) During the third quarter of 2003, Dominion redeemed its $500 million variable rate senior notes due 2013. In a direct exchange, Dominion completed the redemption by issuing $510 million of 5.25% senior notes due 2033. In addition to the senior notes described above, Dominion borrowed $18 million to complete a power generation project at Virginia Powers Possum Point power station. In January 2004, Dominion Resources, Inc. issued $100 million of variable rate senior notes due 2006 and $200 million of 5.2% senior notes due 2016. Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, principally the repayment of debt. During 2003, Dominion Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries repaid $2.9 billion of long term debt securities. Dominion used the entirety of its $500 million escrow deposit, established in December 2002, to repay matured debt in January 2003. Amounts Available under Shelf Registrations At March 1, 2004, Dominion Resources, Inc., Virginia Power, and CNG had approximately $2.4 billion, $670 million, and $1.3 billion, respectively, of available capacity under currently effective shelf registrations. Securities that may be issued under these shelf registrations, depending upon the registrant, include senior notes (including medium term notes), subordinated notes, first and refunding mortgage bonds, trust preferred securities, preferred stock and common stock. Credit Ratings Credit ratings are intended to provide banks and capital market participants with a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Management believes that the current credit ratings of the Dominion Companies provide sufficient access to the capital markets. However, disruptions in the banking and capital markets not specifically related to Dominion may affect the Dominion Companies ability to access these funding sources or cause an increase in the return required by investors. Both quantitative (financial strength) and qualitative (business or operating characteristics) factors are considered by the credit rating agencies in establishing an individual companys credit rating. Credit ratings should be evaluated independently and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. The credit ratings for the Dominion Companies are most affected by each companys financial profile, mix of regulated and non regulated businesses and respective cash flows, changes in methodologies used by the rating agencies and event risk, if applicable, such as major acquisitions. Credit ratings for the Dominion Companies as of February 2, 2004 follow: Standard& Poors Moodys Dominion Resources, Inc. Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ Baa1 Preferred securities of affiliated trusts BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 Virginia Power Mortgage bonds A A2 Senior unsecured (including tax exempt) debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of affiliated trust BBB Baa1 Preferred stock BBB Baa2 Commercial paper A 2 P 1 CNG Senior unsecured debt securities BBB+ A3 Preferred securities of affiliated trust BBB Baa1 Commercial paper A 2 P 2 36 Table of Contents As of February 2, 2004, Moodys maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of CNG and Standard & Poors maintains a negative outlook for its ratings of Dominion Resources, Inc. and CNG. Generally, a downgrade in an individual companys credit rating would not restrict its ability to raise short term and long term financing so long as its credit rating remains investment grade, but it would increase the cost of borrowing. Dominion has been working closely with both Standard & Poors and Moodys with the objective of maintaining its current credit ratings. Recent steps to improve the agencies view of Dominions financial position include the reduction of planned capital spending and related borrowings, as discussed below, and the issuance of $2.0 billion of common stock during 2002 and $990 million during 2003. As discussed in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results, in order to maintain its current ratings, Dominion may find it necessary to modify its business plans and such changes may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. Debt Covenants As part of borrowing funds and issuing debt (both short term and long term) or preferred securities, the Dominion Companies must enter into enabling agreements. These agreements contain covenants that, in the event of default, could result in the acceleration of principal and interest payments; restrictions on distributions related to its capital stock, including dividends, redemptions, repurchases, liquidation payments or guarantee payments; and in some cases, the termination of credit commitments unless a waiver of such requirements is agreed to by the lenders/security holders. These provisions are customary, with each agreement specifying which covenants apply. These provisions are not necessarily unique to the Dominion Companies. Some of the typical covenants include: n The timely payment of principal and interest; n Information requirements, including submitting financial reports filed with the SEC to lenders; n Performance obligations, audits/inspections, continuation of the basic nature of business, restrictions on certain matters related to merger or consolidation, restrictions on disposition of substantial assets; n Compliance with collateral minimums or requirements related to mortgage bonds; and n Limitations on liens. Dominion monitors the covenants on a regular basis in order to ensure that events of default will not occur. As of December 31, 2003, there were no events of default under the Dominion Companies covenants. Cash Used In Investing Activities During 2003, 2002 and 2001, investing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $3.4 billion, $4.0 billion, and $4.2 billion respectively. Significant investing activities for 2003 included: n $2.1 billion for the construction and expansion of generation facilities, including environmental upgrades, purchases of nuclear fuel, and construction and improvements of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets; n $1.3 billion for the purchase and development of gas and oil producing properties, drilling and equipment costs and undeveloped lease acquisitions; n $777 million for the purchase of securities and $912 million for the sale of securities, primarily related to investments held in nuclear decommissioning trusts; n $633 million for purchase of DFV senior notes; n $385 million in advances related to a generation project under construction in Pennsylvania. The asset, when completed, will be leased to Dominion; n $305 million of proceeds from sales of gas and oil properties and n release of $500 million from escrow for the repayment of debt. Future Cash Payments For Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expenditures Dominion is party to numerous contracts and arrangements obligating Dominion to make cash payments in future years. These contracts include financing arrangements such as debt agreements and leases, as well as contracts for the purchase of goods and services and financial derivatives. Presented below is a table summarizing expected cash payments that may result from contracts to which Dominion is a party as of December 31, 2003. For purchase obligations and other liabilities, amounts are largely estimated based upon contract terms, including fixed, minimum or expected quantities to be purchased at fixed or market based prices. Actual cash payments will be based upon actual quantities purchased and prices paid and will likely differ from amounts presented below. LessThan 1Year 1 3years 3 5years Morethan 5years Total (millions) Long term debt(1) $ 1,239 $ 3,724 $ 2,626 $ 9,485 $ 17,074 Interest charges 981 1,778 1,383 7,965 12,107 Leases 70 95 60 57 282 Purchase obligations: Purchased electric capacity for utility operations 589 1,155 1,063 4,176 6,983 Fuel used for utility operations other(2) 986 638 309 424 2,357 Production handling 44 117 89 43 293 Pipeline capacity 86 141 89 235 551 Energy commodity purchases for resale(3) 547 102 24 673 Other fuel nonregulated 30 119 102 251 Other 283 276 265 274 1,098 Other long term liabilities: Financial derivatives(3) 725 645 40 193 1,603 Asset retirement obligations(4) 49 56 84 11,502 11,691 Other contractual obligations 55 35 4 32 126 Total cash payments $ 5,684 $ 8,881 $ 6,138 $ 34,386 $ 55,089 (1) Based on stated maturity dates rather than the earlier redemption dates that could be elected by instrument holders. 37 Table of Contents (2) Fuel used in utility operations is recoverable through rate recovery mechanisms. (3) Represents the summation of settlement amounts, by contracts, due from Dominion if all physical or financial transactions among Dominion and its counterparties were liquidated and terminated. (4) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. Dominions planned capital expenditures during 2004 are expected to total approximately $2.4 billion. For 2005, planned capital expenditures are expected to range from $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion. These expenditures include construction and expansion of generation facilities, environmental upgrades, construction improvements and expansion of gas and electric transmission and distribution assets, purchases of nuclear fuel and expenditures to explore for and develop natural gas and oil properties. Dominion expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from operations, and a combination of sales of securities and short term borrowings. Dominion may choose to postpone or cancel certain planned capital expenditures, to the extent they are not fully covered by operating cash flows. Dominion would do this in order to mitigate the need for future debt financings, beyond those needed to cover normal maturities and redemptions. Use of Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Leasing Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, Dominion was party to an agreement with a voting interest entity (lessor) in order to construct and lease a new power generation project in Pennsylvania. Project costs totaled $695 million at December 31, 2003 of which $624 million was advanced to the lessor by Dominion. Dominion expects to be repaid during 2004. This project is expected to be completed in 2004 and will result in estimated annual lease commitments of approximately $58 million. A lease agreement has not yet been executed for this project, however, Dominion expects that, once executed, it will qualify as an operating lease. Dominion has been appointed to act as the construction agent for the lessor and controls the design and construction of the facility. Dominion, in this role, is responsible for completing construction by a specified date. In the event a project is terminated before completion, Dominion has the option to either purchase the project for 100% of project costs plus fees or terminate the project and turn it over to the lessor. Benefits of this arrangement include: n Certain tax benefits as Dominion would be considered the owner of the leased property for tax purposes. As a result, it would be entitled to tax deductions for depreciation not recognized for financial accounting purposes and n As an operating lease for financial accounting purposes, the asset and related borrowings used to finance the construction of the asset would not be included on Dominions Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although this improves measures of leverage calculated using amounts reported in Dominions Consolidated Financial Statements, credit rating agencies view lease obligations as debt equivalents in evaluating Dominions credit profile. Securitizations of Mortgages and Loans As of December 31, 2003, Dominion held $413 million of retained interests from securitizations of mortgage and commercial loans completed in prior years. Dominion did not securitize or originate any loans in 2003. Investors in the securitization trusts have no recourse to Dominions other assets for failure of debtors to repay principal and interest on the underlying loans when due. Therefore, Dominions exposure to any future losses from this activity is limited to its investment in retained interests. Future Issues and Other Matters Status of Deregulation in Virginia The Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (the Virginia Restructuring Act), enacted in 1999, established a plan to restructure the electric utility industry in Virginia. The Virginia Restructuring Act addressed among other things: capped base rates, participation in a regional transmission organization (RTO), retail choice and the recovery of stranded costs. Dominion made retail choice available to all of its Virginia regulated electric customers as of January 1, 2003. Base Rates Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions Virginia jurisdictional operations is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation. Dominions base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) will remain capped until July 2007, unless modified or terminated sooner under the Virginia Restructuring Act. Recovery of generation related costs will continue through capped rates, and, where applicable, a wires charge assessed on those customers opting for alternative suppliers. Additionally, the Virginia Restructuring Act provides that after the end of the capped rate period, any default service provided by Dominion will be based upon competitive market prices for electric generation services. In January 2004, legislation supported by the Offices of the Governor and the Attorney General of Virginia was submitted to the Virginia General Assembly that would extend the capped base rates by three and one half years, through December 31, 2010. The bill was supported by Dominion and was approved by the Virginia Senate in late January 2004. In addition to extending capped rates, the bill would: n Lock in Dominions fuel factor until the earlier of July 1, 2007 or the termination of capped rates through Virginia Commission order; n Provide for a one time adjustment of Dominions fuel factor, effective July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, with no adjustment for previously incurred over recovery or under recovery of fuel costs and thus would eliminate deferred fuel accounting and 38 Table of Contents n End wires charges on the earlier of July 1, 2007, or the termination of capped rates, consistent with the Virginia Restructuring Acts original timetable. Other bills were introduced in the Virginia House of Delegates that would repeal the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend most of the Virginia Restructuring Act, suspend customer choice, and re impose cost of service rate making. Legislation calling for suspension of the Virginia Restructuring Acts key provisions and a return to the cost of service regulatory methodology was defeated in a House committee in early February. Other measures have been deferred to 2005 by a House committee. Until the legislative process is concluded, no assessment can be made concerning future developments. RTO The Virginia Restructuring Act requires that Dominion join an RTO subject to Virginia Commission approval. FERC requires each public utility that owns or operates transmission facilities to make certain filings with respect to RTO formation, but relies on voluntary formation of RTOs to advance its energy policies. By joining an RTO, Dominions regulated electric utility subsidiary, Virginia Power, would transfer functional control of its transmission assets to a third party RTO. In September 2002, Dominion and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) entered into the PJM South Implementation Agreement. The agreement provides that, subject to regulatory approval and certain provisions, Dominion will become a member of PJM, transfer functional control of its electric transmission facilities to PJM for inclusion in a new PJM South Region and integrate its control area into the PJM energy markets. The agreement also allocates costs of implementation of the agreement among the parties. In June 2003, Dominion made a filing as required by the Virginia Restructuring Act requesting authorization from the Virginia Commission to become a member of PJM on November 1, 2004. In September 2003, the Virginia Commission issued an order directing Dominion to provide additional information concerning the application. Hearings on Dominions application are scheduled to begin in October 2004. Dominion intends to file for FERC and North Carolina Commission approval to join PJM in the future. Dominion has incurred and will continue to incur integration and operating costs associated with joining an RTO. Dominion has deferred certain of these costs for future recovery and is giving further consideration to seeking regulatory approval to defer the balance of such costs. Recovery of Stranded Costs Stranded costs are those generation related costs incurred or commitments made by utilities under cost based regulation that may not be reasonably expected to be recovered in a competitive market. At December 31, 2003, Dominions exposure to potentially stranded costs consisted of long term purchased power contracts that could ultimately be determined to be above market; generating plants that could possibly become uneconomical in a deregulated environment; and unfunded obligations for nuclear plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits not yet recognized in the financial statements. Dominion believes capped electric retail rates and, where applicable, wires charges will provide an opportunity to recover a portion of its potentially stranded costs, depending on market prices of electricity and other factors. Recovery of Dominions potentially stranded costs remains subject to numerous risks even in the capped rate environment. These include, among others, exposure to long term power purchase commitment losses, future environmental compliance requirements, changes in tax laws, nuclear decommissioning costs, inflation, increased capital costs, and recovery of certain other items. The enactment of deregulation legislation in 1999 not only caused the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71 for Dominions Virginia jurisdictional utility generation related operations but also caused Dominion to review its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses at that time. Significant assumptions considered in that review included possible future market prices for fuel and electricity, load growth, generating unit availability and future capacity additions in Dominions market, capital expenditures, including those related to environmental improvements, and decommissioning activities. Based on those analyses, no recognition of plant impairments or contract losses was appropriate at that time. In response to future events resulting from the development of a competitive market structure in Virginia and the expiration or termination of capped rates and wires charges, Dominion may have to reevaluate its utility generation assets for impairment and long term power purchase contracts for potential losses. Assumptions about future market prices for electricity represent a critical factor that affects the results of such evaluations. Since 1999, market prices for electricity have fluctuated significantly and will continue to be subject to volatility. Any such review in the future, which would be highly dependent on assumptions considered appropriate at the time, could possibly result in the recognition of plant impairment or contract losses that would be material to Dominions results of operations or its financial position. In January 2004, the Commission on Electric Utility Restructuring adopted a resolution related to the monitoring of stranded costs. Changes to Cost Structure While the Virginia Restructuring Act did not define specific generation related costs to be recovered, it did provide for generation related cash flows (through the combination of capped rates and wires charges billed to customers) through July 1, 2007, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the Virginia Restructuring Act (the transition period). The generation related cash flows provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act are intended to compensate Dominion for continuing to provide generation services and to allow Dominion management to incur costs to restructure such operations during the transition period. As a result, during the tran 39 Table of Contents sition period, Dominion may increase earnings to the extent that management can reduce operating costs for its utility generation related operations. Conversely, the same risks affecting the recovery of Dominions stranded costs, discussed above, may also adversely impact its cost structure during the transition period. Accordingly, Dominion could realize the negative economic impact of any such adverse event. In addition to managing the cost of its generation related operations, Dominion may also seek opportunities to sell available electric energy and capacity to customers beyond its electric utility service territory. Using cash flows from operations during the transition period, Dominion may further alter its cost structure or choose to make additional investment in its business. The capped rates were derived from rates established as part of the 1998 Virginia rate settlement and do not provide for specific recovery of particular generation related expenditures, except for certain regulatory assets. To the extent that Dominion manages its operations to reduce its overall operating costs below those levels included in the capped rates, Dominions earnings may increase. Since the enactment of the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominion has been reviewing its cost structure to identify opportunities to reduce the annual operating expenses of its generation related operations. For example, the reduction in future fixed capacity payments, resulting from the termination of certain long term power purchase agreements during 2001 and 2003, is expected to increase annual after tax earnings by approximately $48 million during the transition period. Also in 2002 and 2001, Dominion revised the estimated useful lives of its electric generation assets. The changes in estimates were based upon expected life extensions of nuclear plants and new engineering studies of the other assets. As a result of these changes, annual after tax earnings will increase by approximately $67 million during the transition period, as a result of lower depreciation expense for these assets. FERC Standard Market Design Proposal In 2002, FERC issued proposed rules that would establish a standardized transmission service and wholesale electric market design for entities participating in wholesale electric markets. FERC proposed to exercise jurisdiction over the transmission component of bundled retail transactions, modify the existing electric transmission tariff to include a single tariff service applicable to all transmission customers and provide a standard market design for wholesale electric markets. FERC also proposed that transmission owners that have not yet joined an RTO must contract with a separate entity, an independent transmission provider, to operate their transmission facilities. FERC scheduled a number of technical conferences and meetings with interested parties and has indicated that the market design and timing of the rule is subject to change. In April 2003, FERC issued a discussion document addressing several issues raised by state regulatory commissions and market participants in FERCs proposed Standard Market Design. The document proposes certain changes to Standard Market Design and to work with the states and market participants to develop reasonable timetables for moving forward on the formation of RTOs. FERC also stated that it would not use the Standard Market Design rulemaking to overturn prior RTO orders where there is an overlap. It is uncertain what impact, if any, these matters may have on Dominions efforts to join PJM or on the design of wholesale electric markets. Environmental Matters Dominion is subject to costs resulting from a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect human health and the environment. These laws and regulations affect future planning and existing operations. They can result in increased capital, operating and other costs as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations. Historically, Dominion recovered such costs arising from regulated electric operations through utility rates. However, to the extent that environmental costs are incurred in connection with operations regulated by the Virginia Commission, during the period ending June 30, 2007, in excess of the level currently included in the Virginia jurisdictional electric retail rates, Dominions results of operations will decrease. After that date, recovery through regulated rates may be sought for only those environmental costs related to regulated electric transmission and distribution operations. Dominion also may seek recovery through regulated rates for environmental expenditures related to regulated gas transmission and distribution operations. Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures Dominion incurred approximately $113 million, $123 million and $116 million of expenses (including depreciation) during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, in connection with environmental protection and monitoring activities, and expects these expenses to be approximately $120 million in 2004. In addition, capital expenditures related to environmental controls were $210 million, $335 million and $221 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The estimated amount for these expenditures is $100 million for 2004. Clean Air Act Compliance The Clean Air Act requires Dominion to reduce its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NOX ), which are gaseous by products of fossil fuel combustion. The Clean Air Acts SO2 and NOX reduction programs include: n The issuance of a limited number of SO2 emission allowances. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of SO2 into the atmosphere. The allowances may be transacted with a third party; and n The issuance of a limited number of NOX emission allowances to comply with NOX emission requirements applicable during ozone season months of May through September. Each allowance permits the emission of one ton of NOX into the atmosphere. 40 Table of Contents Implementation of projects to comply with SO2 and NOX limitations are ongoing and will be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, availability of allowances, various state and federal control programs, and emission control technology. In response to these requirements, Dominion expects to make the following capital expenditures at its affected generating facilities: n $350 million during the period 2004 through 2008 on SO2 emission control equipment; and n $72 million during 2004 through 2005 on NOX reduction equipment. Total costs are expected to be $708 million, of which approximately $636 million has been incurred through December 31, 2003. The majority of these cost estimates are also included in the capital cost expenditure estimate contemplated by the Consent Decree, described below. In relation to a Notice of Violation received by Virginia Power in 2000 from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and related proceedings, Virginia Power, the U.S. Department of Justice, the EPA, and the states of Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York agreed to a settlement in April 2003 in the form of a proposed Consent Decree. The Virginia federal district court entered the final Consent Decree in October 2003, resolving the underlying actions. Under the settlement, Virginia Power paid a $5 million civil penalty, agreed to fund $14 million for environmental projects and committed to improve air quality under the Consent Decree estimated to involve expenditures of $1.2 billion. Dominion has already incurred certain capital expenditures for environmental improvements at its coal fired stations in Virginia and West Virginia and has committed to additional measures in its current financial plans and capital budget to satisfy the requirements of the Consent Decree. As of December 31, 2003, Dominion had recognized a provision for the funding of the environmental projects, substantially all of which was recorded in 2000. Other As part of its reissuance of a pollution discharge permit for the Millstone Power Station, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection is evaluating the ecological impacts of the cooling water intake system. Until the permit is reissued, it is not possible to predict the financial impact, if any, that may result. Future Environmental Regulations In December 2003, the EPA announced plans to propose additional regulations addressing pollution transport from electric generating units as well as the regulation of mercury and nickel emissions. These regulatory actions, in addition to revised regulations expected to be issued in 2004 to address regional haze, could require additional reductions in emissions from the Companys fossil fuel fired generating facilities. If these new emission reduction requirements are imposed additional significant expenditures may be required. Under authority of the Clean Water Act, the EPA has announced the publication of new regulations governing utilities that employ a cooling water intake structure, with flow levels that exceed a minimum threshold. As announced, the EPAs rule presents several control options. Dominion is evaluating facility information from affected power stations. Dominion cannot predict the future impact on its operations at this time. The U.S. Congress is considering various legislative proposals that would require generating facilities to comply with more stringent air emissions standards. Emission reduction requirements under consideration would be phased in under a variety of periods of up to 16 years. If these new proposals are adopted, additional significant expenditures may be required. In 1997, the United States signed an international Protocol to limit man made greenhouse emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. However, the Protocol will not become binding unless approved by the U.S. Senate. Currently, the Bush Administration has indicated that it will not pursue ratification of the Protocol and has set a voluntary goal of reducing the nations greenhouse gas emission intensity by 18% over the next 10 years. Several legislative proposals that include provisions seeking to impose mandatory reductions of greenhouse gas emissions are under consideration in the United States Congress. The cost of compliance with the Protocol or other mandatory greenhouse gas reduction obligations could be significant. Given the highly uncertain outcome and timing of future action, if any, by the U.S. federal government on this issue, Dominion cannot predict the financial impact of future climate change actions on its operations at this time. Other Matters Telecommunications Operations In December 2003, Dominion classified the assets and related liabilities of DTI as held for sale, and its results of operations as discontinued operations. The current plan of sale anticipates a closing by the end of June 2004. In addition DTI has long term obligations, including leases, maintenance agreements and other contracts, that must be considered in the sale and may result in additional losses in future periods depending upon the final terms of the sale. Millstone Operating Licenses In January 2003, Dominion filed with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to renew the operating licenses of its two nuclear units at Millstone Power Station. If renewed, Unit 2 would continue to operate until 2035 and Unit 3 until 2045. 41 Table of Contents Kewaunee Power Plant During the fourth quarter of 2003, Dominion announced an agreement with Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, a subsidiary of WPS Resources Corporation (WPS), and Wisconsin Power & Light Company (WP&L), a subsidiary of Alliant Energy Corporation, to purchase the Kewaunee Power Plant, a nuclear power station in northeastern Wisconsin. Under terms of the agreement, the aggregate purchase price is $220 million in cash, including $35 million for nuclear fuel. Dominion will sell 100% of the facilitys output to WPS (59%) and WP&L (41%) under a power purchase agreement that expires in 2013. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2004, pending applicable federal and state regulatory approvals. Kewaunee will be included in the Dominion Generation operating segment. Future Acquisitions Because Dominions industry is rapidly changing, there are many opportunities for acquisitions of assets, as well as for business combinations. Dominion investigates any opportunity that may increase shareholder value and build on existing businesses, with an objective to enter into transactions that would be immediately accretive to earnings per share. Dominion has participated in the past and its security holders may assume that at any time Dominion may be participating in bidding or other negotiations for such transactions. Such participation may or may not result in a transaction for Dominion. However, any such transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash, debt or equity securities. It may also involve payment of a premium over book or market values. Such transactions or payments could affect the market prices and rates for Dominions securities. Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Dominions financial instruments, commodity contracts and related derivative financial instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, equity security prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Interest rate risk generally is related to Dominions outstanding debt. Commodity price risk is present in Dominions electric operations, gas production and procurement operations, and energy marketing and trading operations due to the exposure to market shifts in prices received and paid for natural gas, electricity and other commodities. Dominion uses derivative commodity contracts to manage price risk exposures for these operations. In addition, Dominion is exposed to equity price risk through various portfolios of equity securities. The following sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive instruments over a selected time period due to a 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk Trading Activities As part of its strategy to market energy and to manage related risks, Dominion manages a portfolio of commodity based derivative instruments held for trading purposes. These contracts are sensitive to changes in the prices of natural gas, electricity and certain other commodities. Dominion uses established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these price fluctuations and uses derivative instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, to mitigate risk by creating offsetting market positions. In addition, Dominion may use its generation capacity to satisfy commitments to sell energy when not needed to serve customers in its service territory. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $56 million and $12 million in the fair value of Dominions commodity based financial derivative instruments held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Commodity Price Risk Non Trading Activities Dominion manages the price risk associated with purchases and sales of natural gas, oil and electricity by using derivative commodity instruments including futures, forwards, options and swaps. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the fair value of Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Market prices and volatility are principally determined based on quoted prices on the futures exchange. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in market prices of Dominions non trading commodity based derivative financial instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of approximately $424 million and $357 million as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on Dominions non trading derivative commodity instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from derivative commodity instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, are substantially offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Interest Rate Risk Dominion manages its interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. Dominion also enters into interest rate sensitive derivatives, including interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. For financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would decrease annual earnings by approximately $10 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates, as determined at December 31, 2002, would have resulted in a decrease in annual earnings of approximately $4 million. 42 Table of Contents In addition, Dominion, through subsidiaries, retains ownership of mortgage investments, including subordinated bonds and interest only residual assets retained from securitizations of mortgage loans originated and purchased in prior years. Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discusses the impact of changes in value of these investments. Foreign Exchange Risk Dominions Canadian natural gas and oil exploration and production activities are relatively self contained within Canada. As a result, Dominions exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for these activities is limited primarily to the effects of translation adjustments that arise from including that operation in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominions management monitors this exposure and believes it is not material. In addition, Dominion manages its foreign exchange risk exposure associated with anticipated future purchases of nuclear fuel processing services denominated in foreign currencies by utilizing currency forward contracts. As a result of holding these contracts as hedges, Dominions exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in relevant foreign exchange rates would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $19 million and $22 million in the fair value of currency forward contracts held by Dominion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Investment Price Risk Dominion is subject to investment price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in decommissioning trust funds. In accordance with current accounting standards, these marketable securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Dominion recognized a net realized loss (net of investment income) of $10 million and a net unrealized gain of $263 million on decommissioning trust investments for the year ended 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Dominion recognized a net realized gain (including investment income) of $32 million and a net unrealized loss of $166 million. Dominion also sponsors employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund benefit payments. To the extent that the values of investments held in these trusts decline, the effect will be reflected in Dominions recognition of the periodic cost of such employee benefit plans and the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit plans. During 2003, Dominions pension plans experienced net realized and unrealized gains of $627 million and in 2002 net realized and unrealized losses of $241 million. Risk Management Policies Dominion has operating procedures in place that are administered by experienced management to help ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, Dominion has established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the risk management policies of all subsidiaries. Dominion maintains credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterpartys financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary, and the use of standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, Dominion also monitors the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on credit policies and the December 31, 2003 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward looking statement include weather conditions; governmental regulations; cost of environmental compliance; inherent risk in the operation of nuclear facilities; fluctuations in energy related commodities prices and the effect these could have on Dominions earnings, liquidity position and the underlying value of its assets; trading counterparty credit risk; capital market conditions, including price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in trusts and benefit plans; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in rating agency requirements and ratings; changes in accounting standards; collective bargaining agreements and labor negotiations; the risks of operating businesses in regulated industries that are becoming deregulated; the transfer of control over electric transmission facilities to a regional transmission organization; political and economic conditions (including inflation and deflation); and completing the divestiture of investments held by DCI, CNG International Corporation and DFV. Other more specific risk factors are as follows: Dominions operations are weather sensitive. Dominions results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms and droughts, can be destructive, causing outages, production delays and property damage that require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Dominion is subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect its operations. Dominions operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. Dominion must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes the necessary approvals have been obtained for Dominions existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of 43 Table of Contents existing laws or regulations, may require Dominion to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed Dominions estimates. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. In addition, Dominion may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Dominion is exposed to cost recovery shortfalls because of capped base rates in effect in Virginia through mid 2007 for its regulated electric utility. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations is open to competition and resulting uncertainty. Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, Dominions base rates (excluding, generally, fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) remain unchanged until July 2007 unless modified or terminated consistent with the Virginia Restructuring Act. Although the Virginia Restructuring Act allows for the recovery of certain generation related costs during the capped rates period, Dominion remains exposed to numerous risks of cost recovery shortfalls. These include exposure to potentially stranded costs, future environmental compliance requirements, tax law changes, costs related to hurricanes or other weather events, inflation and increased capital costs. In addition, under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominions electric utility operations is open to competition and is no longer subject to cost based regulation. To date, the competitive market has been slow to develop and it is difficult to predict the pace at which the competitive environment will evolve and the extent to which Dominion will face increased competition and be able to operate profitably within this competitive environment. Additional uncertainty arises from several legislative proposals currently under consideration by the 2004 Virginia General Assembly. These proposals range from extending for three and a half years the period during which capped rates are in effect but with certain limitations on changes in the fuel factor, to suspending customer choice and returning to cost based regulation. See Future Issues and Other Matters Status of Deregulation in Virginia in MD&A and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dominions merchant power business is operating in a challenging market. The success of Dominions merchant power business depends upon its ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Depressed spot and forward wholesale power prices and excess capacity in the industry could result in lower than expected revenues in Dominions merchant power business. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities. These risks include the cost of and Dominions ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, plant maintenance costs, threat of terrorism, spent nuclear fuel disposal costs and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. Dominion maintains decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses. Dominion uses derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. In the future, Dominion could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management and Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dominion is exposed to market risks beyond its control in its energy clearinghouse operations. Dominions energy clearinghouse and risk management operations are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. Many industry participants have experienced severe business downturns resulting in some companies exiting or curtailing participation in the energy trading markets. This has led to a reduction in the number of trading partners and lower industry trading revenues. Declining creditworthiness of some of Dominions trading counterparties may limit the level of its trading activities with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may not perform under a contract. Successfully executing Dominions exit from the telecommunications business is dependent upon market conditions and timing. In September 2003, Dominion announced it would recognize impairment charges related to DTI, its telecommunications investment, and that it plans to exit the telecommunications business. Continued depressed market conditions in the telecommunications industry may make it difficult for Dominion to sell the business as a whole, resulting in sales of telecommunications assets that may not include a transfer of all associated liabilities. Additionally, the difficulty in 44 Table of Contents finding suitable buyers for the telecommunications business and in obtaining required state and federal regulatory approvals could delay the sale of the business. If Dominion fails to sell its telecommunications business quickly, DTI risks the loss of current customers and key employees. DTI requires external sources of liquidity for its operating funds. Dominion has advanced, and anticipates making additional advances of, operating funds to DTI. Given its current financial and operating position, it is unlikely that DTI would be able to secure funds from other sources, so it is dependent on continued funding from Dominion to sustain its operations. Any additional funds provided by Dominion may not be recovered from a sale of the telecommunications business. Until a sale occurs, Dominions investment in the telecommunications business may continue to be adversely affected and could be subject to further impairment charges. Dominions exploration and production business is dependent on factors that cannot be predicted or controlled. Factors that may affect Dominions financial results include fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, Dominions ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas as well as inherent operational risks that could disrupt production. Dominions liquidity may also be impacted by margin requirements that result from financial derivatives used to hedge future sales of gas and oil production and require the deposit of funds and other collateral with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. Short term market declines in natural gas and oil prices may also result in the permanent write down of Dominions gas and oil properties as required by the full cost method of accounting. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. If net capitalized costs exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge adjusted period end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test), in a given country, at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of Dominions business plan. Dominion relies on access to both short term money markets and longer term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from its operations. Management believes that Dominion and its subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of Dominions control may increase its cost of borrowing or restrict its ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to Dominions credit ratings. Restrictions on Dominions ability to access financial markets may affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect Dominions growth and business strategy. As of February 2, 2004, Dominions senior unsecured debt was rated BBB+, negative outlook, by Standard & Poors and Baa1, stable outlook, by Moodys. Both agencies have recently implemented more stringent applications of the financial requirements for various ratings levels. In order to maintain its current credit ratings in light of these or future new requirements, Dominion may find it necessary to take steps or modify its business plans in ways that may adversely affect its growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominions credit ratings by either Standard & Poors or Moodys could increase its borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect Dominions financial results. Dominion cannot predict the impact future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general or the energy industry or its operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way Dominion records revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect Dominions reported earnings or could increase reported liabilities. I tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 45 Table of Contents 
 
