Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs for the near term. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels. Fossil Fuel Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal, oil and natural gas in its fossil fuel plants. Dominion Generations coal supply is obtained through long term contracts and short term spot agreements from both domestic and international suppliers. Dominion Generations natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid Continent and Gulf Coast regions; purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; and withdrawals from underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties. Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that allows flexibility in delivering natural gas to our gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs. Purchased Power Dominion Generation purchases electricity from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements. SEASONALITY Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers to meet cooling and heating needs. Sales of electricity from our merchant generation plants are also affected by seasonal changes in demand and commodity prices. NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING Dominion Generation has a total of seven licensed, operating nuclear reactors at its Surry power station (Surry) and North Anna power station in Virginia, Millstone power station (Millstone) in Connecticut and Kewaunee power station in Wisconsin. Surry and North Anna serve customers of our regulated electric utility operations. Millstone and Kewaunee are merchant power stations. Millstone has two operating units. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before we acquired the power station. We have decommissioning obligations for each of these power stations as discussed in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station 7 Table of Contents once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers and placed into trusts have been invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units. As part of our acquisition of both Millstone and Kewaunee, we acquired decommissioning funds for the related units. We believe that the amounts currently available in our decommissioning trusts and their expected earnings will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs for the Millstone and Kewaunee units, without any additional contributions to those trusts. The total estimated cost to decommission our eight nuclear units is $4.2 billion in 2007 dollars and is primarily based upon site specific studies completed in 2006. For all units except Millstone Unit 1 and Unit 2, the current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Millstone Unit 1 is not in service and selected minor decommissioning activities are being performed. This unit will continue to be monitored until full decommissioning activities begin for the remaining Millstone units. We expect to start minor decommissioning activities at Millstone Unit 2 in 2035, with full decommissioning of Millstone Units 1, 2 and 3 during the period 2045 to 2059. We expect to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2059. We intend to apply for a 20 year life extension in 2008 for our Kewaunee unit. If the NRC approves the life extension application, we expect to decommission Kewaunee during the period 2033 to 2059. The license expiration dates for our units are shown in the following table. Surry North Anna Millstone Kewaunee Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 3 Unit 1 Total (dollars in millions) NRC license expiration year 2032 2033 2038 2040 (1 ) 2035 2045 2013 Most recent cost estimate (2007 dollars) $ 471 $ 499 $ 449 $ 471 $ 632 $ 534 $ 542 $ 602 $ 4,200 Funds in trusts at December 31, 2007 374 369 306 290 317 374 367 491 2,888 2007 contributions to trusts 1.4 1.5 1.0 0.9 4.8 (1) Unit 1 ceased operations in 1998, before our acquisition of Millstone. Corporate and Other We also have a Corporate and Other segment that includes our corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt), corporate wide commodity risk management, the remaining assets of Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI), and the net impact of certain operations disposed of or to be disposed of, which are discussed in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Operations disposed of during 2007 included all of our non Appalachian E&P operations, three natural gas fired merchant generation peaking facilities and certain DCI operations. Operations to be disposed of include two regulated gas distribution subsidiaries, Peoples and Hope, which we agreed to sell to Equitable in March 2006. However, as previously discussed, this agreement was terminated in January 2008 and we are seeking other offers for the purchase of these utilities. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to our operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments performance or allocating resources among the segments. ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY Dominion is committed to being a good environmental steward. Our ongoing objective is to provide reliable, affordable energy for our customers while being environmentally responsible. Our integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of four major elements: Conservation and efficiency; Renewable generation development; Other generation development to maintain our fuel diversity, including clean coal, advanced nuclear energy, and natural gas; and Improvements in other energy infrastructure. Conservation plays a critical role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. Virginia re regulation legislation enacted in 2007 provides for incentives for energy conservation and sets a goal to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by ten percent of the amount consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs. We announced plans in September 2007 for a series of pilot programs focused on energy conservation and demand response. The pilots will be offered to a selection of 4,550 customers in our central, eastern and northern Virginia service areas. To help ensure that the results are representative, customers will not be able to volunteer for the pilots nor participate in more than one pilot. We will report results from the pilots at least quarterly to the Virginia Commission staff to help evaluate their effectiveness. The pilots approved by the Virginia Commission include: 1,000 residential customers in each of four different energy saving pilots. The pilots are designed to cycle central heating and air conditioning units during peak energy demand times, inform customers about their real time energy consumption patterns, promote programmable thermostats that allow customers to control their use of electricity, and educate customers about the value of reducing energy use during peak use times. Free energy audits and energy efficiency kits to 150 existing residential customers, 100 new homes meeting energy efficiency guidelines set by the EPA, and 50 small commercial customers. In addition, 250 new homes will receive energy efficiency welcome kits that include compact fluorescent light bulbs. Incentives for commercial customers to reduce load during periods of peak demand by running their generators to produce up to 100 Mw of electricity. This would be in addition to existing Dominion options in which commercial and industrial customers have reduced demand by more than 300 Mw during peak demand periods. 8 Table of Contents Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed legislation setting goals for renewable power. We are committed to meeting Virginias goal of 12 % renewable power by 2022 and North Carolinas renewable portfolio standard of 12.5 % by 2021. We are actively assessing development opportunities in our service territories for renewable technologies. In November, 2007 we issued a request for proposals (RFP) for renewable energy projects in Virginia, North Carolina or elsewhere in the PJM Interconnect region. The RFP seeks the purchase of renewable energy generation projects, as well as renewable energy credits. Our regulated utility currently provides approximately two percent of its generation from renewable sources. In addition, Dominion is a 50% owner of a wind energy facility in Grant County, West Virginia. When operational, our share of this project will produce 132 Mw of renewable energy. Dominion has also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture with BP Alternative Energy, Inc. (BP) to develop a wind turbine facility in Benton County, Indiana. The facility is expected to be built in two phases and generate a total of 750 Mw of which we will jointly own 650 Mw with BP. See Dominion GenerationProperties for more information. We also anticipate using up to 20% biomass (woodwaste) at the proposed Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center discussed in Dominion GenerationProperties. We have announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to as Powering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi fuel, multi technology generation capacity to meet the growing demand in our core market of Virginia. The new generation planned in connection with this program is discussed further under Dominion GenerationProperties. We expect that these investments collectively will provide the following benefits: expanded electricity production capability; increased technological and fuel diversity; and a reduction in the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions intensity of our generation fleet. A critical aspect of the Powering Virginia program is the extent to which we seek to reduce the carbon intensity of our generation fleet by developing generation facilities with zero CO2 and low CO2 emissions, as well as economically viable facilities that can be equipped for CO2 separation and sequestration. There is no current economically viable technological solution to retro fit existing fossil fueled technology to capture and sequester greenhouse gas emissions. Given that new generation units have useful lives of up to 50 years, we will give full consideration to CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions when making long term investment decisions. Finally, we plan to make a significant investment in improving the capabilities and reliability of our electric transmission and distribution system. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting our continued goal of providing reliable service. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future. REGULATION We are subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities. State Regulations ELECTRIC Our electric utility retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. Our electric utility subsidiary holds certificates of public convenience and necessity which authorize it to maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, this subsidiary may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and North Carolina Commission regulate our electric utility subsidiarys transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and issuance of securities. Status of Electric Regulation in Virginia 2007 Virginia Restructuring Act and Fuel Factor Amendments On July 1, 2007, legislation amending the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (the Restructuring Act) and the fuel factor became effective, which significantly changes electricity regulation in Virginia. Prior to the Restructuring Act, our base rates in Virginia were capped at 1999 levels until December 31, 2010. The Restructuring Act ends capped rates two years early, on December 31, 2008. After capped rates end, retail choice will be eliminated for all but individual retail customers with a demand of more than 5 Mw and non residential retail customers who obtain Virginia Commission approval to aggregate their load to reach the 5 Mw threshold. Individual retail customers will be permitted to purchase renewable energy from competitive suppliers if the incumbent electric utility does not offer a renewable energy tariff. Also after the end of capped rates, the Virginia Commission will set our base rates under a modified cost of service model. Among other features, the new model provides for the Virginia Commission to: Initiate a base rate case during the first six months of 2009, reviewing the 2008 test year, as a result of which the Virginia Commission: shall establish a return on equity (ROE) no lower than that reported by at least a majority of a group of utilities within the southeastern U.S., with certain limitations, as described in the legislation; may increase or decrease the ROE by up to 100 basis points based on generating plant performance, customer service and operating efficiency, if appropriate; shall increase base rates, if needed, to allow the Company the opportunity to recover its costs and earn a fair rate of return if we are found to have earnings more than 50 basis points below the established ROE; or may reduce rates prospectively upon completion of the 2009 review or, alternatively, order a credit to customers if we are found to have test year earnings of more than 50 basis points above the established ROE. 9 Table of Contents After the initial rate case, review base rates biennially, as a result of which the Virginia Commission: shall establish an ROE no lower than that reported by at least a majority of a group of utilities within the southeastern U.S., with certain limitations, as described in the legislation; may increase or decrease the ROE by up to 100 basis points based on generating plant performance, customer service and operating efficiency, if appropriate; after 2010, authorize an increased ROE on overall rate base upon achieving the goals established for the renewable energy portfolio standard programs. Such increased ROE would be in lieu of any increased or decreased ROE from the preceding paragraph, unless there has been an increase to the ROE awarded under the preceding paragraph that is higher than the renewable energy portfolio standard increase; and shall increase base rates, if needed, to allow the Company the opportunity to recover its costs and earn a fair rate of return if we are found to have earned, during the test period, more than 50 basis points below the then currently established ROE; or may order a credit to customers if we are found to have earned, during the test period, more than 50 basis points above the then currently established ROE, and reduce rates if we are found to have such excess earnings during two consecutive biennial review periods. Authorize stand alone rate adjustments for recovery of certain costs, including new generation projects, major generating unit modifications, environmental compliance projects, FERC approved costs for transmission service and energy efficiency, conservation and renewable energy programs; and Authorize an enhanced ROE on new capital expenditures as a financial incentive for construction of certain major generation projects. The legislation also continues statutory provisions directing us to file annual fuel cost recovery cases with the Virginia Commission beginning in 2007 and continuing thereafter, as discussed in Virginia Fuel Expenses. As discussed previously, the legislation provides for the Virginia Commission to initiate a base rate case during the first six months of 2009, as a result of which the Virginia Commission may reduce rates or alternatively, order a credit to customers if we are found to have earnings more than 50 basis points above the established ROE. We are unable to predict the outcome of future rate actions at this time, however an unfavorable outcome could adversely affect our results of operations. Virginia Fuel Expenses Under amendments to the Virginia fuel cost recovery statute passed in 2004, our fuel factor provisions were frozen until July 1, 2007. Fuel prices have increased considerably since 2004, which resulted in our fuel expenses being significantly in excess of our fuel cost recovery. Pursuant to the 2007 amendments to the fuel cost recovery statute, annual fuel rate adjustments, with deferred fuel accounting for over or under recoveries of fuel costs, were re instituted on July 1, 2007. While the 2007 amendments did not allow us to collect any unrecovered fuel expenses that were incurred prior to July 1, 2007, once our fuel factor was adjusted, this mechanism ensures dollar for dollar recovery for prudently incurred fuel costs. In April 2007, we filed a Virginia fuel factor application with the Virginia Commission. The application showed a need for an annual increase in fuel expense recovery for the period July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 of approximately $662 million; however, the requested increase was limited to $219 million under the 2007 amendments to the fuel cost recovery statute. Under these amendments, our fuel factor increase as of July 1, 2007 was limited to an amount that results in the residential customer class not receiving an increase of more than 4% of total rates in effect as of June 30, 2007. The Virginia Commission approved the fuel factor increase for Virginia jurisdictional customers of approximately $219 million, effective July 1, 2007, with the balance of approximately $443 million to be deferred and subsequently recovered subject to Virginia Commission approval, without interest, during the period commencing July 1, 2008 and ending June 30, 2011. North Carolina Regulation In 2004, the North Carolina Commission commenced an investigation into our North Carolina base rates and subsequently ordered us to file a general rate case to show cause why our North Carolina jurisdictional base rates should not be reduced. The rate case was filed in September 2004, and in March 2005 the North Carolina Commission approved a settlement that included a prospective $12 million annual reduction in current base rates and a five year base rate moratorium, effective as of April 2005. Fuel rates are still subject to change under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings. GAS Our gas distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (Pennsylvania Commission) and the Public Services Commission of West Virginia (West Virginia Commission). Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services Each of the three states in which we have gas distribution operations has enacted or considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level. Ohio Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential or commercial natural gas consumers. However, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission, we have offered retail choice to residential and commercial customers. At December 31, 2007, approximately 820,000 of our 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this Energy Choice program. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies. In May 2006, the Ohio Commission approved a two year pilot program to improve and expand our Energy Choice Program through a Standard Service Offer (SSO) rate. Under the previous structure, non Energy Choice customers purchased gas directly from us at a monthly gas cost recovery rate that included true up adjustments that could change significantly from one quarter to the next. In August 2006, the Ohio Commission approved an auction that enabled us to enter into gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the New York Mercantile Exchange month end settlement. This SSO pricing mechanism, implemented in October 2006, replaces the traditional gas cost recovery rate with a monthly 10 Table of Contents market price that eliminates the true up adjustment, making it easier for customers to compare and switch to competitive suppliers by the end of the transition period. In December 2007, Dominion East Ohio filed an application seeking approval of Phase 2 of its plan to restructure its commodity service, whereby the company will still buy natural gas for Energy Choice eligible customers currently receiving SSO service, but will identify the customers designated supplier on the bill. Subject to ultimate Ohio Commission approval, we plan to exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. We will continue to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Pennsylvania In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential and small commercial customers. At December 31, 2007, approximately 95,000 residential and small commercial customers had opted for Energy Choice in our Pennsylvania service area. Nearly all Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers buy natural gas from nonregulated suppliers. West Virginia At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia. Rates Our gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they operate Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary, our gas distribution subsidiaries seek general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs. In August 2007, Dominion East Ohio filed an application to increase base rates. In this rate case, Dominion East Ohio requested approval of an increase in operating revenues of over $73 million to provide a rate of return on rate base of 8.72%. In February 2008, Dominion East Ohio filed an application seeking approval from the Ohio Commission to implement a 25 year program to replace approximately 19% of its 21,000 mile pipeline system and to recover the resulting costs. The application also requests Ohio Commission approval for Dominion East Ohio to assume responsibility for the service lines that run from the curb to the customers meter. Currently, customers own those service lines and are responsible for bearing the cost of installation and for any repairs or replacement that may be needed. The cost of the program in total will exceed $2.6 billion in 2007 dollars. The resulting expenditure of more than $100 million per year will more than double Dominion East Ohios current annual spending on its pipeline infrastructure. However, the cost to customers would be spread out over many decades due to the 25 year time frame of the replacement program and the period over which recovery in rates would be allowed. Dominion East Ohio also made a related filing asking the Ohio Commission to consolidate its review of the pipeline infrastructure replacement program with Dominion East Ohios current rate case application in order to give the Ohio Commission and other parties the opportunity to consider the two filings together. In addition to general rate increases, our gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. These purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover prospective one, three or twelve month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses. Federal Regulations EPACT AND THE REPEAL OF PUHCA EPACT was signed into law in August 2005. Among other things, EPACT repealed the Public Utilities Holding Company Act (PUHCA) of 1935, effective February 2006. PUHCA regulated many significant aspects of a registered holding company system, such as Dominions. As a result of PUHCAs repeal, utility holding companies, including Dominions system, are no longer limited to a single integrated public utility system. Further, utility holding companies are no longer restricted from acquiring businesses that may not be related to the utility business. Jurisdiction over certain holding company related activities has been transferred to the FERC, including the issuances of securities by public utilities, the acquisition of securities of utilities, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets, and mergers with another electric utility or holding company. In addition, both FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and records of any company within a holding company system. EPACT contains key provisions affecting the electric power industry. These provisions include tax changes for the utility industry, incentives for emissions reductions and federal insurance and incentives to build new nuclear power plants. It gives the FERC backstop transmission siting authority, as well as increased utility merger oversight. The law also provides incentives and funding for clean coal technologies and initiatives to voluntarily reduce greenhouse gases. FERC has issued regulations implementing EPACT. We do not expect compliance with these regulations to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION Electric Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Our electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the PJM wholesale market and our merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM, Midwest ISO and ISO New England wholesale markets under our market based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, our electric utility subsidiary has FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on our embedded cost of generation. This cost based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside our service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary. In May 2005, FERC issued an order finding that PJMs existing transmission service rate design may not be just and reasonable, and ordered an investigation and hearings on the matter. In January 2008, FERC affirmed its earlier decision that the PJM transmission rate design for existing 11 Table of Contents facilities had not become unjust and unreasonable. For recovery of costs of investments of new PJM planned transmission facilities that operate at or above 500 kV, FERC established a regional rate design where all customers pay a uniform rate based on the costs of such investment. For recovery of costs of investment in new PJM planned transmission facilities that operate below 500kV, FERC affirmed its earlier decision to allocate costs on a beneficiary pays approach. A notice of appeal of this decision was filed in February 2008 at the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. We cannot predict the outcome of the appeal. We are also subject to FERCs Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and their marketing function or their energy related affiliates. The rule defines the scope of the affiliates covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their marketing functions or affiliates undue preferences. EPACT included provisions to create an Electric Reliability Organization (ERO). The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability standards governing the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. In 2006, FERC certified NERC as the ERO beginning on January 1, 2007. In late 2006, FERC also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect on January 1, 2007. Beginning on June 4, 2007, entities that violate standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation. We have planned and operated our facilities in compliance with earlier NERC voluntary standards for many years and are fully aware of the new requirements. We participate on various NERC committees, track development and implementation of standards, and maintain proper compliance registration with NERCs regional organizations. While we expect that there will be some additional cost involved in maintaining compliance as standards evolve, we do not expect the expenditures to be significant. Gas FERC regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by our interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI, Dominion Cove Point LNG, LP (DCP) and the Dominion South Pipeline Company, LP. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting, construction and operation of natural gas import facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline facilities. Our interstate gas transmission and storage activities are conducted on an open access basis, in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC. We are also subject to the Pipeline Safety Act of 2002 (2002 Act), which mandates inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located in areas of high density population. We have evaluated our natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under the 2002 Act, and have implemented a program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing. In May 2005, FERC approved a comprehensive rate settlement with our subsidiary, DTI, and its customers and interested state commissions. The settlement, which became effective July 1, 2005, revised our natural gas transmission rates and reduced fuel retention levels for storage service customers. As part of the settlement, DTI and all signatory parties agreed to a rate moratorium until 2010. In December 2007, DTI and the Independent Oil and Gas Association of West Virginia, Inc. reached a settlement agreement on DTIs gathering and processing rates for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. This settlement maintains the gas retainage fee structure that DTI has had since 2001. Under the settlement, the gathering retainage rate increases from 9.25% to 10.5% and the processing retainage rate in recognition of the increased market value of natural gas liquids decreases from 3.25% to 0.5%. This reduction in the combined retainage, from 12.5% to 11%, should provide a lower overall cost for most producers. Due to the increase in natural gas prices from three years ago, the consolidated impact of these rate changes is expected to increase DTIs gathering and processing revenues. In addition, DTI will continue to retain all revenues from its liquids sales, thus maintaining its cash flow from this activity. In connection with the settlement, DTI also agreed to invest at least $20 million annually in Appalachian gathering related assets. The new rates are subject to FERC approval. In June 2006, we filed a general rate proceeding for DCP. The rates established in this case took effect on January 1, 2007. This rate proceeding enabled DCP to update the cost of service underlying its rates, including recovery of costs associated with the 2002 to 2003 reactivation of the LNG import terminal. The FERC approved settlement established a rate moratorium that ends in mid 2011. We implemented various other rate filings, tariff changes and negotiated rate service agreements for our FERC regulated businesses during 2007. In all material respects, these filings were approved by FERC in the form requested by us and were subject to only minor modifications. Environmental Regulations Each of our operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. If our expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices (in deregulated jurisdictions), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. The cost of complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to Dominion. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance, see Environmental Matters in Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Clean Air Act (CAA) is a comprehensive program utilizing a broad range of regulatory tools to protect and preserve the nations air quality. At a minimum, states are required to establish 12 Table of Contents regulatory programs to address all requirements of the CAA. However, states may choose to develop regulatory programs that are more restrictive. Many of our facilities are subject to the CAAs permitting and other requirements. For example, the EPA has established the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) and the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR). These rules, when implemented, will require significant reductions in sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOX) and mercury emissions from electric generating facilities. States are currently developing implementation plans, which will determine the levels and timing of required emission reductions in each of the states within which we own and operate affected generating facilities. Separate from CAIR and CAMR, Massachusetts has regulations specifically targeting reductions in NOX, SO2, CO2 and mercury emissions from our affected facilities in Massachusetts. In February 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued a ruling that vacates CAMR as promulgated by the EPA. At this time we cannot determine if this ruling will be subject to further appeals and how the EPA, and subsequently the states, may alter their approach to reducing mercury emissions. We also cannot estimate at this time the impact that this ruling will have on our future capital expenditures. Based on the increasing intensity of national and international studies regarding climate change and its relationship to greenhouse gas emissions, we expect that there may be federal legislative or regulatory action in this area in the future. The outcome in terms of specific requirements and timing is uncertain but may include a greenhouse gas emissions cap and trade program or a carbon tax for electric generators and natural gas businesses. In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, which could result in future EPA action. In June 2007, the President announced U.S. support for an effort to develop a new post 2012 framework on climate change involving the top ten to fifteen greenhouse gas emitting countries that would focus on establishing a long term global goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with each country establishing its own mid term targets and programs. In addition to possible federal action, some states in which we operate have already or may adopt greenhouse gas emission reduction programs. For example, Massachusetts has implemented regulations requiring reductions in CO2 emissions. The Virginia Energy Plan, released by the Governor of Virginia in September 2007, includes a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions statewide back to 2000 levels by 2025. The Governor has formed a Commission on Climate Change to develop a plan to achieve this goal. Until this goal results in legislative or regulatory action, the outcome in terms of specific requirements, timing and cost of compliance is uncertain. The Clean Water Act (CWA) is a comprehensive program requiring a broad range of regulatory tools including a permit program to authorize and regulate discharges to surface waters with strong enforcement mechanisms. We must comply with all aspects of the CWA programs at our operating facilities. Provisions under CWA section 316b also include requirements that the location, design, construction, and capacity of cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact. Additional programs under the CWA address the impact of thermal discharges to surface waters. In October 2003, the EPA and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MADEP) each issued new National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for Brayton Point. The new permits contained identical conditions that in effect require the installation of cooling towers to address concerns over the withdrawal and discharge of cooling water. Following various appeals, in December 2007, the EPA issued an administrative order to Brayton Point that contained a schedule for implementing the permit. On the same day, Brayton Point withdrew its appeal of the permit from the U.S. Court of Appeals. Brayton Points state appeal will be dismissed upon MADEP finalizing the process for implementing the parallel state permit. Currently, we estimate the total cost to install these cooling towers at approximately $500 million, of which $176 million is included in our planned capital expenditures through 2010. We have determined that we are associated with 21 former manufactured gas plant sites. Studies conducted by other utilities at their former manufactured gas plants have indicated that their sites contain coal tar and other potentially harmful materials. None of the 21 former sites with which we are associated is under investigation by any state or federal environmental agency. For more information on these sites see Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time we may be identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) to a Superfund site. Refer to Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our exposure relating to identification as a PRP. We do not believe that any currently identified sites will result in significant liabilities. We have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the operation of our facilities. Many of these permits are subject to re issuance and continuing review. Nuclear Regulatory Commission All aspects of the operation and maintenance of our nuclear power stations, which are part of our Dominion Generation segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires. From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, that action could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining our nuclear generating units. The NRC also requires us to decontaminate our nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and we are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on our decommissioning trusts, see Dominion Generation Nuclear Decommissioning and Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. We have identified a number of these factors below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward Looking Statements in MD&A. 13 Table of Contents Our operations are weather sensitive. Our results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that require us to incur additional expenses. In addition, droughts can result in reduced water levels that could adversely affect operations at some of our power stations. We are subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. We must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes that the necessary approvals have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, or penalties imposed for non compliance with existing laws or regulations may require us to incur additional expenses. We could be subject to penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. As a result of EPACT, owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems, including Dominion, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by NERC and enforced by FERC. If we are found not be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and purchase of allowances and or offsets. Additionally, we could be responsible for expenses relating to remediation and containment obligations, including at sites where we have been identified by a regulatory agency as a PRP. Our expenditures relating to environmental compliance have been significant in the past, and we expect that they will remain significant in the future. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, especially if emission and or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increases. We cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any new environmental rules or regulations related to emissions. Other factors which affect our ability to predict our future environmental expenditures with certainty include the difficulty in estimating clean up costs and quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties. If federal and or state requirements are imposed on energy companies mandating further emission reductions, including limitations on carbon dioxide emissions, such requirements could make some of our electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. We expect that federal legislation, and possibly additional state legislation, may pass resulting in the imposition of limitations on greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel fired electric generating units. Such limits could make certain of our electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term, unless there are significant improvements in the commercial availability and cost of carbon capture and sequestration technology. There are also potential impacts on our natural gas businesses as federal greenhouse gas legislation may require greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements from the natural gas sector. Several regions of the U.S. have moved forward with greenhouse gas regulations including regions where we have operations. For example, Massachusetts has implemented regulations requiring reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cap and trade program covering carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in the Northeast, will affect several of our facilities. In addition, a number of bills have been introduced in Congress that would require greenhouse gas emissions reductions from fossil fuel fired electric generation facilities, natural gas facilities and other sectors of the economy, although none have yet been enacted. Compliance with these greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements may require us to commit significant capital toward carbon capture and sequestration technology, purchase of allowances and or offsets, fuel switching, and or retirement of high emitting generation facilities and replacement with lower emitting generation facilities. The costs of compliance with expected greenhouse gas legislation are subject to significant uncertainties due to the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of the implementation of rules, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, the maturation and commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology and associated regulations, and our selected compliance alternatives. As a result, we cannot estimate the effect of any such legislation on our results of operations, financial condition or our customers. We are exposed to cost recovery shortfalls because of capped base rates for our regulated electric utility. Under the Restructuring Act, as amended in 2004 and 2007, our base rates remain capped through December 31, 2008. Although the Restructuring Act allows for the recovery of certain generation related costs during the capped rates period, we remain exposed to numerous risks of cost recovery shortfalls, such as costs related to hurricanes or other unanticipated events. The rates of our Virginia electric utility are subject to regulatory review. As a result of the Restructuring Act, commencing in 2009 the base rates of our electric utility company will be reviewed by the Virginia Commission under a modified cost of service model. Such rates will be set based on analyses of our electric utilitys costs and capital structures, as reviewed and approved in regulatory proceedings. Under the Restructuring Act, the Virginia Commission may, in a proceeding conducted in 2009, reduce rates or order a credit to customers if our electric utility company is deemed to have earnings during a 2008 test period which are more than 50 basis points above a return on equity level to be established by the Virginia Commission in that proceeding. After the initial rate case, the Virginia Commission will review the rates of our electric utility company biennially and may order a credit 14 Table of Contents to customers if it is deemed to have earned more than 50 basis points above a return on equity level established by the Virginia Commission and may reduce rates if our electric utility company is found to have had earnings in excess of the established return on equity level during two consecutive biennial review periods. Energy conservation could negatively impact our financial results. A number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. To the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our merchant generation, E&P assets and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. In our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact Dominion depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that resulted in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation will have on our financial condition or results of operations. Our merchant power business is operating in a challenging market, which could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. The success of our merchant power business depends upon favorable market conditions as well as our ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover operating costs. We attempt to manage these risks by entering into both short term and long term fixed price sales and purchase contracts and locating our assets in active wholesale energy markets. However, high fuel and commodity costs and excess capacity in the industry could adversely impact our results of operations. There are risks associated with the operation of nuclear facilities. We operate nuclear facilities that are subject to risks, including the threat of terrorist attack and our ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the disposal of which is subject to complex federal and state regulatory constraints. These risks also include the cost of and our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, costs of replacement power, costs of plant maintenance and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. We maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to mitigate the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that decommissioning costs could exceed the amount in our trusts or that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. We use derivative instruments, including futures, swaps, forwards, options and financial transmission rights to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In addition, we purchase and sell commodity based contracts primarily in the natural gas market for trading purposes. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if the counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge future sales of our merchant generation and gas production, which may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. These hedge arrangements generally include collateral requirements that require us to deposit funds or post letters of credit with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. When commodity prices rise to levels substantially higher than the levels where we have hedged future sales, we may be required to use a material portion of our available liquidity and obtain additional liquidity to cover these collateral requirements. In some circumstances, this could have a compounding effect on our financial liquidity and results of operations. Derivatives designated under hedge accounting to the extent not fully offset by the hedged transaction can result in ineffectiveness losses. These losses primarily result from differences in the location and specifications of the derivative hedging instrument and the hedged item and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations in regards to these transactions are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. These market risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 2 and 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our E&P business is affected by factors that cannot be predicted or controlled and that could damage facilities, disrupt production or reduce the book value of our assets. Factors that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to: damage to or suspension of operations caused by weather, fire, explosion or other events at our or third party gas and oil facilities, fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, our ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas, drilling cost pressures, operational risks that could disrupt production, drilling rig availability and geological and other uncertainties inherent in the estimate of gas and oil reserves. Short term market declines in the prices of natural gas and oil could adversely affect our financial results by causing a permanent write down of our natural gas and oil properties as required by the full cost method of accounting. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. If net capitalized costs exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge adjusted period end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test) at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write down of the assets must be recognized in that period. We may not complete plant construction or expansion projects that we commence, or we may complete projects on materially different terms or timing than initially anticipated and we may not be able to achieve the intended benefits of any such project, if completed. We have announced several plant construction and expansion projects and may consider additional plant construction and expansion 15 Table of Contents projects in the future. We anticipate that we will be required to seek additional financing in the future to fund our current and future plant construction and expansion projects and we may not be able to secure such financing on favorable terms. In addition, we may not be able to complete the plant construction or expansion projects on time as a result of weather conditions, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals, delays in obtaining key materials, labor difficulties, difficulties with partners or other factors beyond our control. With respect to our LNG and gas transmission pipeline operations, if we do not meet designated schedules for approval and construction of our plant and expansion projects, certain of our customers may have the right to terminate their precedent agreements relating to the expansion projects. Certain of our customers may also have the right to receive liquidated damages. Even if plant construction and expansion projects are completed, the total costs of the plant construction and expansion projects may be higher than anticipated and the performance of our business following the plant construction and expansion projects may not meet expectations. Additionally, regulators may disallow recovery of some of the costs of a plant or expansion project if they are deemed not to be prudently incurred. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the plant construction and expansion projects. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of our business plan. Dominion and our subsidiary, Virginia Power, rely on access to short term money markets, longer term capital markets and banks as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and collateral requirements, related to hedges of future sales of merchant generation and gas and oil production, not satisfied by the cash flows from our operations. Management believes that Dominion and Virginia Power will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of our control may increase our cost of borrowing or restrict our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to our credit ratings. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets or increase our liabilities, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission our nuclear plants and under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuation and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission our nuclear plants and under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under our pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If we are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, our results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect our growth and business strategy. As of February 1, 2008, Dominions senior unsecured debt is rated A , stable outlook, by Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. (Standard & Poors); Baa2, stable outlook, by Moodys Investors Services (Moodys); and BBB+, stable outlook, by Fitch Ratings Ltd. (Fitch). In order to maintain our current credit ratings in light of existing or future requirements, we may find it necessary to take steps or change our business plans in ways that may adversely affect our growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominions credit ratings or the credit ratings of our Virginia Power subsidiary by Standard & Poors, Moodys or Fitch could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results and could require us to post additional collateral in connection with some of our price risk management activities. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings or could increase reported liabilities. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2007, we owned our principal executive office and two other corporate offices, all located in Richmond, Virginia. We also lease corporate offices in other cities in which our subsidiaries operate. Our assets consist primarily of our investments in our subsidiaries, the principal properties of which are described here and in Item 1. Business. Substantially all of our electric utilitys property is subject to the lien of the mortgage securing its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. Although there are no publicly issued bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2007, we may issue additional bonds in the future. Certain of our merchant generation facilities are also subject to liens. The following information detailing our gas and oil operations reflects our Appalachian E&P operations, which are included in the Dominion Energy segment, as well as our non Appalachian E&P operations divested during 2007, which are included in the Corporate and Other segment. 16 Table of Contents COMPANY OWNED PROVED GAS AND OIL RESERVES Estimated net quantities of proved gas and oil reserves were as follows: At December 31, 2007 2006 2005 ProvedDeveloped TotalProved ProvedDeveloped TotalProved ProvedDeveloped TotalProved Proved gasreserves (bcf) U.S. 636 1,019 3,424 4,961 3,605 4,856 Canada 132 175 101 106 Total proved gas reserves 636 1,019 3,556 5,136 3,706 4,962 Proved oil reserves(000 bbl) U.S. 12,613 12,613 173,718 216,849 145,735 198,602 Canada 7,061 15,410 7,154 19,096 Total proved oil reserves 12,613 12,613 180,779 232,259 152,889 217,698 Total proved gas and oil reserves (bcfe) 712 1,095 4,640 6,530 4,623 6,268 bbl barrel bcfe billion cubic feet equivalent Certain of our subsidiaries file Form EIA 23 with the DOE which reports gross proved reserves, including the working interest shares of other owners, for properties operated by such subsidiaries. The proved reserves reported in the previous table represent our share of proved reserves for all properties, based on our ownership interest in each property. For properties we operate, the difference between the proved reserves reported on Form EIA 23 and the gross reserves associated with the Company owned proved reserves reported in the previous table, does not exceed five percent. Estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 are based upon studies for each of our properties prepared by our staff engineers and audited by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. Calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines. QUANTITIES OF GAS AND OIL PRODUCED Quantities of gas and oil produced follow: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Gas production (bcf) U.S. 206 302 275 Canada 8 16 15 Total gas production 214 318 290 Oil production (000 bbl) U.S. 11,626 23,923 14,714 Canada 559 1,024 861 Total oil production 12,185 24,947 15,575 Total gas and oil production (bcfe) 287 467 383 The average realized price per thousand cubic feet (mcf) of gas with hedging results (including transfers to other Dominion operations at market prices) during the years 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $5.99, $4.41 and $4.79, respectively. The respective average realized prices without hedging results per mcf of gas produced were $6.63, $6.67 and $8.01. The respective average realized prices for oil with hedging results were $37.78, $33.42 and $30.46 per barrel and the respective average realized prices without hedging results were $50.08, $54.49 and $49.48 per barrel. The average production (lifting) cost per mcf equivalent of gas and oil produced (as calculated per SEC guidelines) during the years 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $1.39, $1.18 and $1.16, respectively. ACREAGE Gross and net developed acreage (in thousands) at December 31, 2007 were 1,367 and 1,281 acres, respectively. Gross and net undeveloped acreage (in thousands) at December 31, 2007 were 376 and 223 acres, respectively. NET WELLS DRILLED IN THE CALENDAR YEAR The number of net wells completed follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Exploratory: U.S. Productive 6 6 Dry 3 6 Total U.S. 9 12 Canada Productive 33 Dry 4 Total Canada 37 Total Exploratory 46 12 Development: U.S. Productive 804 1,039 909 Dry 10 33 34 Total U.S. 814 1,072 943 Canada Productive 10 31 59 Dry 4 5 Total Canada 10 35 64 Total Development 824 1,107 1,007 Total wells drilled (net): 824 1,153 1,019 As of December 31, 2007, 62 gross (57 net) wells were in the process of being drilled, including wells temporarily suspended. PRODUCTIVE WELLS At December 31, 2007, our subsidiaries had an interest in 9,048 and 8,288 productive gas wells, gross and net, respectively. Our subsidiaries did not have an interest in any productive oil wells at December 31, 2007. The number of productive wells includes 1 gross (0.89 net) multiple completion gas well and no multiple completion oil wells. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for productive well count purposes. 17 Table of Contents POWER GENERATION We generate electricity for sale on a wholesale and a retail level. We can supply electricity demand either from our generation facilities or through purchased power contracts, when needed. The following table lists Dominion Generations generating units and capability, as of December 31, 2007: Plant Location Primary Fuel Type Net SummerCapability (Mw) Utility Generation North Anna Mineral, VA Nuclear 1,596 (a) Surry Surry, VA Nuclear 1,598 Mt. Storm Mt. Storm, WV Coal 1,560 Chesterfield Chester, VA Coal 1,253 Chesapeake Chesapeake, VA Coal 595 Clover Clover, VA Coal 433 (b) Yorktown Yorktown, VA Coal 323 Bremo Bremo Bluff, VA Coal 227 Mecklenburg Clarksville, VA Coal 138 North Branch Bayard, WV Coal 74 Altavista Altavista, VA Coal 63 Polyester(c) Hopewell, VA Coal 63 Southampton Southampton, VA Coal 63 Yorktown Yorktown, VA Oil 818 Possum Point Dumfries, VA Oil 786 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Oil 186 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Oil 156 Chesapeake (CT) Chesapeake, VA Oil 115 Possum Point (CT) Dumfries, VA Oil 72 Northern Neck (CT) Lively, VA Oil 47 Low Moor (CT) Covington, VA Oil 48 Kitty Hawk (CT) Kitty Hawk, NC Oil 32 Remington (CT) Remington, VA Gas 582 Possum Point (CC) Dumfries, VA Gas 532 Chesterfield (CC) Chester, VA Gas 397 Possum Point Dumfries, VA Gas 312 Elizabeth River (CT) Chesapeake, VA Gas 300 Ladysmith (CT) Ladysmith, VA Gas 297 Bellmeade (CC) Richmond, VA Gas 232 Gordonsville Energy (CC) Gordonsville, VA Gas 218 Rosemary (CC) Roanoke Rapids, NC Gas 165 Gravel Neck (CT) Surry, VA Gas 158 Darbytown (CT) Richmond, VA Gas 156 Bath County Warm Springs, VA Hydro 1,706 (d) Gaston Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 225 Roanoke Rapids Roanoke Rapids, NC Hydro 99 Pittsylvania Hurt, VA Biomass 83 Other Various Various 15 15,723 Power Purchase Agreements 2,076 Total Utility Generation 17,799 Merchant Generation Millstone Waterford, CT Nuclear 1,951 (e) Kewaunee Kewaunee, WI Nuclear 556 Kincaid Kincaid, IL Coal 1,158 (f) Brayton Point Somerset, MA Coal 1,122 State Line Hammond, IN Coal 515 Salem Harbor Salem, MA Coal 314 Morgantown Morgantown, WV Coal 25 (f),(g) Brayton Point Somerset, MA Oil 438 Salem Harbor Salem, MA Oil 440 Fairless (CC) Fairless Hills, PA Gas 1,076 (h) Elwood (CT) Elwood, IL Gas 712 (f),(i) Manchester (CC) Providence, RI Gas 432 Other Various Various 17 Total Merchant Generation 8,756 Total Capacity 26,555 Note: (CT) denotes combustion turbine and (CC) denotes combined cycle. (a) Excludes 11.6% undivided interest owned by Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC). (b) Excludes 50% undivided interest owned by ODEC. (c) Previously referred to as Hopewell. (d) Excludes 40% undivided interest owned by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc. (e) Excludes 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and Central Vermont Public Service Corporation. (f) Subject to a lien securing the facilitys debt. (g) Excludes 50% partnership interest owned by Cogen Technologies Morgantown, Ltd. and Hickory Power Corporation. (h) Includes generating units that we operate under leasing arrangements. (i) Excludes 49.9% membership interest owned by J. POWER Elwood, LLC and 0.1% membership interest owned by Peoples Elwood LLC. 18 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are alleged to be in violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating to the environment, compliance plans imposed upon or agreed to by us, or permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the construction or operation of facilities. Administrative proceedings may also be pending on these matters. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings. We believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. See Regulation in Item 1. Business, Future Issues and Other Matters in MD&A and Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on various environmental, rate matters and other regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. In April 1998, Harrold E. (Gene) Wright filed suit against DEPI (formerly known as CNG Producing Company), a subsidiary of the former CNG, and numerous other companies under the False Claims Act. Mr. Wright alleged various fraudulent valuation practices in the payment of royalties due under federal oil and gas leases. A substantial portion of the claim against us was resolved by settlement in late 2002. The case was remanded back to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, which denied our motion to dismiss on jurisdictional grounds in January 2005. In February 2007, the Judge issued an order providing that trials will occur in phases on 25% of each defendants leases to be selected by the opposing party. The phase I trial (currently involving another defendant) will commence in August 2008. A phase II trial will occur in February 2009 against two defendants selected by the opposing party, with subsequent phases of trials occurring against other defendants in the future with up to two defendants at each future trial. In October 2003, the EPA and MADEP each issued new NPDES permits for Brayton Point. The new permits contained identical conditions that in effect require the installation of cooling towers to address concerns over the withdrawal and discharge of cooling water. Following various appeals, in December 2007, the EPA issued an administrative order to Brayton Point that contained a schedule for implementing the permit. On the same day, Brayton Point withdrew its appeal of the permit from the U.S. Court of Appeals. Brayton Points state appeal will be dismissed upon MADEP finalizing the process for implementing the parallel state permit. Currently, we estimate the total cost to install these cooling towers at approximately $500 million, of which $176 million is included in our planned capital expenditures through 2010. In December 2006 and January 2007, we submitted self disclosure notifications to EPA Region 8 regarding three E&P facilities in Utah that have potentially violated CAA permitting requirements. On July 31, 2007, a third party purchased Dominions E&P assets in Utah, including these facilities, and under the purchase and sale agreement the third party assumed responsibility for the resolution of any enforcement action or Consent Decree, including penalties. In March 2006, Peoples and Equitable filed a joint petition with the Pennsylvania Commission seeking approval of the purchase by Equitable of all of the stock of Peoples and Hope. In April 2006, Hope and Equitable filed a joint petition seeking West Virginia Commission approval of the purchase by Equitable of all of the stock of Hope. In April 2007, the Pennsylvania Commission approved a joint settlement approving the sale in Pennsylvania. Following the approval of the sale of Peoples by the Pennsylvania Commission, the FTC filed an action in federal court seeking to block the transaction. Such action was denied and the case was appealed by the FTC in the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In January 2008, Dominion and Equitable agreed to terminate their sale agreement. Following that termination, the FTC dismissed its administrative complaint challenging the transaction. In February 2008, the federal appeals court granted a motion by the FTC to dismiss the case and to vacate the district court ruling. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 19 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Name and Age Business Experience Past Five Years(1) Thomas F. Farrell, II (53) Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dominion Resources, Inc. (DRI) from April 2007 to date; President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of DRI from January 2006 to date; Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Virginia Electric and Power Company (VP) from February 2006 to date; Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and CEO of Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG) from January 2006 to June 2007; Director of DRI from March 2005 to April 2007; President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of DRI from January 2004 to December 2005; President and COO of CNG from January 2004 to December 2005; Executive Vice President of DRI from March 1999 to December 2003; President and CEO of VP from December 2002 to December 2003; Executive Vice President of CNG from January 2000 to December 2003. Thomas N. Chewning (62) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of DRI from May 1999 to date; Executive Vice President and CFO of CNG from January 2000 to June 2007; Executive Vice President and CFO of VP from February 2006 to date. Eva Teig Hardy (63) Executive Vice President Public Policy & Corporate Communications of DRI from October 2007 to date; Executive Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of DRI from January 2007 to September 2007 and of CNG from January 2007 to June 2007; Senior Vice President External Affairs & Corporate Communications of DRI from May 1999 to December 2006 and of CNG from January 2000 to December 2006. Jay L. Johnson (61) Executive Vice President of DRI from December 2002 to date and of CNG from December 2002 to June 2007; President and COO Dominion Virginia Power of VP from October 2007 to date; President and COO Delivery of VP from February 2006 to September 2007; President and CEO of VP from December 2002 to January 2006. Paul D. Koonce (48) Executive Vice President of DRI from April 2006 to date; President and COO Energy of VP from February 2006 to September 2007; CEO Energy of VP from January 2004 to January 2006; CEO Transmission of VP from January 2003 to December 2003. Mark F. McGettrick (50) Executive Vice President of DRI from April 2006 to date; President and COO Generation of VP from February 2006 to date; President and CEO Generation of VP from January 2003 to January 2006. David A. Christian (53) President and Chief Nuclear Officer (CNO) of VP from October 2007 to date; Senior Vice President Nuclear Operations and CNO of VP from April 2000 to September 2007. Mary C. Doswell (49) Senior Vice President Regulation and Integrated Planning of DRI, VP and Dominion Resources Services, Inc. (DRS) from October 2007 to date; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) of DRI from January 2003 to September 2007; President and CEO of DRS from January 2004 to September 2007; President of DRS from January 2003 to December 2003. G. Scott Hetzer (51) Senior Vice President and Treasurer of DRI from May 1999 to date; Senior Vice President and Treasurer of VP from January 2000 to date and of CNG from January 2000 to June 2007. Steven A. Rogers (46) President and CAO of DRS, Senior Vice President and CAO of DRI from October 2007 to date; Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of DRI and VP from January 2007 to September 2007 and CNG from January 2007 to June 2007; Senior Vice President and Controller of DRI and CNG from April 2006 to December 2006; Senior Vice President (Principal Accounting Officer) (PAO) of VP from April 2006 to December 2006; Vice President and Controller of DRI and CNG and Vice President and PAO of VP from June 2000 to April 2006. James F. Stutts (63) Senior Vice President and General Counsel of DRI and VP from January 2007 to date and CNG from January 2007 to June 2007; Vice President and General Counsel of DRI from September 1997 to December 2006; Vice President and General Counsel of VP from January 2002 to December 2006; Vice President and General Counsel of CNG from January 2000 to December 2006. Thomas P. Wohlfarth (47) Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of DRI, VP and DRS from October 2007 to date; Vice President Budgeting, Forecasting & Investor Relations of DRS from February 2006 to September 2007; Vice President Financial Management of VP from January 2004 to January 2006; Director of Investor Relations of DRS from February 2000 to December 2003. (1) Any service listed for VP, CNG and DRS reflects service at a subsidiary of DRI. 20 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31, 2007, there were approximately 154,000 registered shareholders, including approximately 62,000 certificate holders. Restrictions on our payment of dividends are discussed in Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends is disclosed in Note 31 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2007, we issued 248 shares of common stock to a former employee as a deferred payment under a 1985 performance achievement plan. These shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The issuance of this stock did not involve a public offering, and is therefore exempt from registration under the Securities Act. The following table presents certain information with respect to our common stock repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2007. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period (a) TotalNumberof Shares(or Units)Purchased(1) (b) AveragePricePaid perShare(or Unit) (c) Total Numberof Shares (or Units)Purchased as Partof Publicly AnnouncedPlans or Programs (d) Maximum Number (orApproximate Dollar Value)of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased under the Plans or Program 10/1/07 10/31/07 51,400 $ 43.14 N/A 53,971,148 shares/$ 2.68 billion 11/1/07 11/30/07 15,988 $ 45.79 N/A 53,971,148 shares/$ 2.68 billion 12/1/07 12/31/07 7,562 $ 47.28 N/A 53,971,148 shares/$ 2.68 billion Total 74,950 $ 44.12 (2) N/A 53,971,148 shares/$ 2.68 billion (1) Amount includes registered shares tendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock. (2) Represents the weighted average price paid per share during the fourth quarter of 2007. 21 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2007(1) 2006(2) 2005(3) 2004(4) 2003(5) (millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenue $ 15,674 $ 16,297 $ 17,809 $ 13,675 $ 11,802 Income from continuing operations before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,705 1,530 1,033 1,255 908 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax(6) (8 ) (150 ) 6 (6 ) (601 ) Extraordinary item, net of tax (158 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of tax (6 ) 11 Net income 2,539 1,380 1,033 1,249 318 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per common share basic 4.15 2.19 1.51 1.91 1.43 Net income per common share basic 3.90 1.97 1.51 1.90 0.50 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per common share diluted 4.13 2.17 1.50 1.90 1.42 Net income per common share diluted 3.88 1.96 1.50 1.89 0.50 Dividends paid per share 1.46 1.38 1.34 1.30 1.29 Total assets 39,123 49,269 52,660 45,418 43,546 Long term debt 13,235 14,791 14,653 15,507 15,776 (1) Includes a $1.5 billion after tax net income benefit from the disposition of our non Appalachian E&P operations as discussed in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Also includes a $252 million after tax impairment charge associated with the sale of our partially completed Dresden Energy merchant generation facility and a $158 million after tax extraordinary charge resulting from the reapplication of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, to the Virginia jurisdiction of our utility generation operations as discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Also includes a $137 million after tax charge resulting from the termination of the long term power sales agreement associated with our 515 Mw State Line power station. (2) Includes a $164 million after tax impairment charge related to three of our natural gas fired merchant generation peaking facilities (Peaker facilities) that were sold in March 2007 and a $104 million after tax charge resulting from the write off of certain regulatory assets related to the planned sale of two of our regulated gas distribution subsidiaries. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Includes a $272 million after tax loss related to the discontinuance of hedge accounting for certain gas and oil derivatives, resulting from an interruption of gas and oil production in the Gulf of Mexico caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Also in 2005, we adopted a new accounting standard that resulted in the recognition of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Includes a $112 million after tax charge related to our interest in a long term power tolling contract that was divested in 2005 and a $61 million after tax loss related to the discontinuance of hedge accounting for certain oil derivatives, resulting from an interruption of oil production in the Gulf of Mexico caused by Hurricane Ivan, and subsequent changes in the fair value of those derivatives during the third quarter. (5) Includes $122 million of after tax incremental restoration expenses associated with Hurricane Isabel. Also in 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities, Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. C20, Interpretation of the Meaning of Not Clearly and Closely Related in Paragraph 10(b) regarding Contracts with a Price Adjustment Feature, and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46R), which resulted in the recognition of the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles. (6) Reflects the net impact of the discontinued operations of certain DCI operations sold in August 2007, Canadian E&P operations sold in June 2007, Peaker facilities sold in March 2007 and telecommunications operations sold in May 2004. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 22 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses our results of operations and general financial condition. MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The readers attention is directed to those paragraphs and Item 1A. Risk Factors for discussion of various risks and uncertainties that may affect our future. MARKET RISK SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Our financial instruments, commodity contracts and related financial derivative instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity security prices as described below. Commodity price risk is present in our electric operations, gas production and procurement operations, and energy marketing and trading operations due to the exposure to market shifts in prices received and paid for electricity, natural gas and other commodities. We use commodity derivative contracts to manage price risk exposures for these operations. Interest rate risk is generally related to our outstanding debt. In addition, we are exposed to equity price risk through various portfolios of equity securities. The following sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive instruments over a selected time period due to a 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices and interest rates. Commodity Price Risk To manage price risk, we hold commodity based financial derivative instruments held for non trading purposes associated with purchases and sales of electricity, natural gas and other energy related products. As part of our strategy to market energy and to manage related risks, we also hold commodity based financial derivative instruments for trading purposes. The derivatives used to manage risk are executed within established policies and procedures and may include instruments such as futures, forwards, swaps, options and FTRs that are sensitive to changes in the related commodity prices. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the fair value of commodity based financial derivative instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Prices and volatility are principally determined based on actively quoted market prices. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in market prices of our non trading commodity based financial derivative instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of approximately $338 million and $597 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease is primarily due to the termination of derivatives related to the divestiture of our non Appalachian E&P business. A hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $8 million and $3 million in the fair value of our commodity based financial derivative instruments held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our non trading commodity based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. Interest Rate Risk We manage our interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. We also enter into interest rate sensitive derivatives, including interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. For financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in annual earnings of approximately $11 million and $25 million, respectively. The decrease is due primarily to a decrease in variable rate debt. Investment Price Risk We are subject to investment price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in decommissioning trust funds. These marketable securities are managed by third party investment managers and are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Following the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to the Virginia jurisdiction of our utility generation operations, gains or losses on those decommissioning trust investments are deferred as regulatory liabilities. We recognized net realized gains (including investment income) on nuclear decommissioning trust investments of $43 million and $63 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2007, we recorded unrealized gains on these investments of $52 million to AOCI and regulatory liabilities. We recorded, in AOCI, unrealized gains on these investments of $194 million in 2006. We also sponsor employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund benefit payments. To the extent that the values of investments held in these trusts decline, the effect will be reflected in our recognition of the periodic cost of such employee benefit plans and the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit plans. Our pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets generated actual returns of $520 million and $674 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 0.25% decrease in the assumed rates of return on our plan assets would result in an increase in net periodic cost of approximately $12 million for pension benefits and $2 million for other postretirement benefits. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 0.25% decrease in the assumed rates of return on our plan assets would have resulted in an increase in net periodic cost of approximately $11 million for pension benefits and $2 million for other postretirement benefits. 49 Table of Contents Risk Management Policies We have established operating procedures with corporate management to ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, we have established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the risk management policies of all subsidiaries. We maintain credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterpartys financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary and the use of standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, we also monitor the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on our credit policies and our December 31, 2007 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance. 50 Table of Contents 
 
