FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20030729153750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 524-1200
Table of Contents
ITEM  5  OTHER EVENTS
Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) issued a press release on July 23, 2003 announcing that it has completed the acquisition of Borg Instruments AG, an automotive electronics company. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 2 of Form 8-K does not apply to the acquisition because the acquisition is not large enough.
On July 23,  2003, JCI entered an agreement with James H. Keyes, who is currently Chairman of the Board of JCI. The agreement provides for Mr. Keyes' retirement from employment and the position of Chairman of the Board effective after January 1,  2004. The agreement specifies Mr. Keyes' compensation during the period through December 31,  2003, and provides for a further period of consultancy thereafter for nine months to assist the Company in its transition in consideration for a fee. The agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.2  and incorporated herein by reference. JCI issued a press release on July 23, 2003 announcing: the election of John M. Barth, President and Chief Executive Officer of JCI, to the additional post of Chairman effective January 1, 2004, that the Board of Directors of JCI authorized a regular quarterly cash dividend of $.36 per common share, and that Frank A. Voltolina, who became JCI's Vice President and Treasurer on June 24,  2003, was elected a corporate officer. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference .
JCI issued a press release on July 23, 2003 announcing that its Shareholder Rights Plan will expire on July 31, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM  7  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)  Exhibits:
99.1  Press release issued by the registrant on July 23, 2003. 99.2  Letter agreement relating to James H. Keyes' retirement. 99.3  Press release issued by the registrant on July 23, 2003. 99.4  Press release issued by the registrant on July 23, 2003.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 29, 2003
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, and BURSCHEID, GERMANY, July 23, 2003... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today announced that it has completed its acquisition of Borg Instruments AG, an automotive electronics company.
     Borg Instruments, a privately-held company with headquarters in Remchingen, Germany, had 2002 sales of Euro 55 million associated with driver information systems and products. Sales are expected to grow at over 35% a year through 2006.
     Johnson Controls said it paid cash of approximately Euro 117.5 million and expects the transaction to be accretive to Johnson Controls earnings in fiscal 2004. It is using short-term borrowings to finance the acquisition.
     Johnson Controls said that Borg Instruments will strengthen its interiors electronics capabilities as well as its technological presence in Europe. Johnson Controls also anticipates transferring the Borg technology to the North American and other markets.
     Borg Instruments specializes in high-end instrument clusters, reconfigurable and other information displays, center stack display modules, electronic parking assistance and its "turn-by-turn" Quo Vadis navigation system. Its major customers include BMW, DaimlerChrysler, PSA Peugeot Citroen, General Motors/Opel, Volkswagen Group and Ford/PAG.
     Borg Instruments has 400 employees, including 120 research and development engineers, and two manufacturing plants in Remchingen and St. Georgen, Germany. The majority owner of the company was Borg Luxembourg S.A.
     
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
     The company has made forward-looking statements in this document that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future risks and may include words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates" or similar expressions. For those statements, the company cautions that numerous important factors, including the completion of the Borg Instrument acquisition, customer orders, industry vehicle production levels, US dollar exchange rates and those discussed in the company's Form 8-K (dated November 12, 2002), could affect the company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the company.

 
Exhibit 99.2
Dear Jim:
     You have indicated your desire to retire from your position with Johnson Controls, Inc. ("JCI"), and you have indicated your willingness to defer your retirement until December 31, 2003, to help ensure a smooth transition of your duties and responsibilities. The Board wishes to recognize your outstanding leadership of JCI and to ensure your continued contributions during the transition period and thereafter. Accordingly, upon your signature this letter will form an agreement to achieve these purposes and to provide you with certain payments and benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions herein (the "Agreement").
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
      . . Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) Board of Directors today announced that John M. Barth, President and Chief Executive Officer, has been elected to the additional post of Chairman effective January 1, 2004.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, July 23, 2003 .
     Mr. Barth will succeed James H. Keyes who will retire December 31. He will continue as a member of the Board of Directors.
     "We owe Jim a huge debt of gratitude for the value he has provided to our customers, our employees and our shareholders," Mr. Barth said. "When he became CEO, this company had sales of $3 billion. Through his vision and unrelenting focus on the attainment of real growth, Johnson Controls will end 2003 with sales of over $22 billion and an enviable track record for increased earnings. We are fortunate to have learned so much from Jim, and we are determined to uphold the 118-year tradition of exceeding the expectations of all our stakeholders."
     Mr. Keyes said, "I am confident that John and his management team will continue to strengthen our innovation process and invest in the technologies that will help our customers succeed, and therefore fuel our growth. John is also committed, and is inordinately qualified, to further strengthen the company's leadership capabilities and to sustain Johnson Controls' reputation for integrity."
     Mr. Keyes has served Johnson Controls as Chairman since 1993, CEO since 1988 and President since 1986. He joined the company in 1966 and was elected to the Board of Directors in 1985.
 
     Mr. Barth was elected CEO in 2002 and President in 1998. He joined the company in 1969 and served in a variety of operating management positions, including heading Johnson Controls' Automotive Systems Group since 1990. Mr. Barth was elected to the Johnson Controls Board of Directors in 1997.
     Company directors also authorized a regular quarterly cash dividend of $.36 per common share. The dividend is payable September 30, 2003 to shareholders of record September 12, 2003.
     Johnson Controls has paid consecutive dividends since 1887.
     The company also said that Frank A. Voltolina, who became the company's Vice President and Treasurer on June 24, was elected a corporate officer.
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

 
Exhibit 99.4
      . . Johnson Controls, Inc. today announced that its Share Rights Plan will expire on July 31, 2003. The company said there were no plans to renew it.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, July 23, 2003 .
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.


