FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20030117093146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 16, 2003 Commission File Number 1-5097 JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Wisconsin 39-0380010 (State of Incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 5757 N. Green Bay Avenue P.O. Box 591 Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 524-1200
ITEM 5 OTHER EVENTS Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99 is a copy of a press release dated January 16, 2003 reporting the registrant's financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2003. ITEM 7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits: 99 Press release issued by the registrant on January 16, 2003. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. BY: /s/ Stephen A. Roell -------------------- Stephen A. Roell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: January 17, 2003 2

EXHIBIT 99 [JOHNSON CONTROLS LOGO] CONTACT: Glen L. Ponczak-media RELEASE: January 16, 2003 (414) 524-2375 Denise M. Zutz-investors (414) 524-3155 JOHNSON CONTROLS FIRST QUARTER RECORD EPS OF $1.48 REPORTED MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, January 16, 2003 ... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported that for the first quarter of fiscal 2003: -Diluted earnings per share increased 17% to $1.48 from $1.27 for the first quarter of fiscal 2002; and, -Sales increased 8% to $5.2 billion from $4.8 billion last year. President and Chief Executive Officer John M. Barth said "We are pleased with the attainment of record results for the quarter and the fact that both of our business segments also achieved record sales and operating income. I appreciate the efforts of our employees worldwide, and the support of our customers and shareholders." For the three months ended December 31, 2002, operating income increased 4% to $247.9 million compared with $238.5 million for the prior year. Income before income taxes and minority interests rose 8% primarily because of the higher operating income and an increase in equity income. Net income increased 17% to $140.4 million from $119.9 million for the first quarter of 2002 aided by, as previously forecast, a decline in the effective income tax rate to 31.0% from 35.9%. Selling, general and administrative expenses were 15% higher as a result of increased automotive engineering expenditures in Europe, the effect of foreign currency translation, and the inclusion of the automotive battery business of Varta which was acquired October 31, 2002. "Miscellaneous-net" expense of $2.4 million was slightly lower than the prior year due to a pretax gain of $16.6 million associated with the conversion of the company's investment in shares of Donnelly Corp. into Magna International shares and the subsequent sale of those shares. Non-operating legal and environmental provisions were increased in the current quarter. -more-
January 16, 2003 Page 2 Total debt to total capitalization increased to 40% from 36% at September 30, 2002 as a result of the battery acquisition. Automotive Systems Group sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2003 increased 8% over the prior year. The increase was due to higher revenues in Europe while sales in other world regions were comparable to the prior year. North American sales of interior systems and batteries were about level with last year. Interiors sales were slightly lower than the year ago amount primarily due to the deconsolidation of a seating joint venture six months ago. Domestic sales of automotive batteries increased due to higher unit shipments to virtually all customers. Automotive group sales in Europe were 25% higher than in the prior year. The increase was due to revenues associated with the acquired battery business, favorable currency translation and slightly higher sales of interior systems. Excluding the effect of the strengthened Euro, sales rose 12%. Johnson Controls automotive sales in Asia, including Japan, and South America were comparable to the prior year. Operating income for the Automotive Systems Group increased 3% from the prior year reflecting improved results in North America and Asia. Operating margin declined primarily due to higher engineering spending and increased new program launch costs in Europe. -more-
January 16, 2003 Page 3 Controls Group sales to the nonresidential buildings market increased 7% over the prior year. By region, North American sales increased 6%; Europe 11%; and, Asia 6%. Excluding the effect of currency translation, Controls Group sales increased 4%. The sales increase was led by higher revenues associated with controls installation contracts for the new construction market, technical services and facility management services. Controls Group operating income for the current quarter was 8% above the prior year amount reflecting the increase in sales. Orders worldwide for control systems and technical services were above the prior year level. In North America, new construction orders were strongest from the federal government and health care sectors while existing building orders were higher in the education and federal government markets. Security related business was also higher even though homeland security funding is yet to be released. In Europe, where the construction market remains soft, orders increased substantially for retrofit controls contracts. Johnson Controls also said that orders for technical service contracts in both North America and Europe were sharply higher reflecting a renewed emphasis on penetrating this market. The backlog of uncompleted control system installation contracts at the end of the quarter was 6% higher than one year ago. Full-Year Outlook Johnson Controls has stated that it expects to achieve record sales and diluted earnings per share for the full year of 2003. The full details of this outlook were in a news release issued on January 8, 2003 and in the company's 8-K filed on January 9, 2003. **** Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Johnson Controls has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2003 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future risks and may include words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates" or similar expressions. For those statements, the company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, as well as those factors discussed in the company's Form 8-K (dated November 12, 2002) could affect the company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the company. -more-
Page 4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (in millions, except per share data; unaudited) -more-
Page 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (in millions) -more-
Page 6 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (in millions; unaudited) -more-
Page 7 FOOTNOTES 1. Effective October 1, 2002, the Company voluntarily adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." In accordance with SFAS No. 123, the Company has adopted the fair value recognition provisions on a prospective basis and accordingly, the expense in the three months ended December 31, 2002, which was not significant, represents a pro rata portion of the 2003 grant which is earned over a three-year vesting period. 2. On October 31, 2002, the Company acquired Varta AG's Automotive Battery Division, a major European automotive battery manufacturer headquartered in Germany. The Varta Automotive Battery Division (Varta) consists of VARTA Automotive GmbH and the 80% majority ownership in VB Autobatterie GmbH. The acquisition gives the Company a leading market position in Europe. The purchase price of approximately $375 million, which includes the assumption of debt, was financed with short-term debt. Approximately $170 million of the purchase price has initially been reported as goodwill which may be adjusted as appraisals and other valuation studies are completed. 3. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income, after deducting dividend requirements on the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings are computed by deducting from net income the after-tax compensation expense which would arise from the assumed conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, which was $0.5 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Diluted weighted average shares assume the conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, if dilutive, plus the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents which would arise from the exercise of stock options. ###


