FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20040721150205.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 524-1200
Table of Contents
ITEM 5
OTHER EVENTS
On July 19, 2004, Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) and Grupo IMSA, S.A. de C.V., joint venture partners in a Mexican and South American automotive battery business, announced that JCI will acquire 100% ownership of the joint venture. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 7
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits:
ITEM 9
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal 2004 third quarter analyst conference call issued by the registrant on July 20, 2004.
ITEM 12
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.3 is a copy of a press release dated July 20, 2004 reporting the registrant's financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, Wisconsin USA . . .July 19, 2004. . . . Johnson Controls, Inc. and Grupo IMSA, S.A. de C.V., joint venture partners in a Mexican and South American automotive battery business, today announced that Johnson Controls will acquire 100% ownership of the joint venture.
     The company is the leading automotive battery producer in Mexico and South America. Grupo IMSA reported fiscal 2003 sales and operating income for the business of $429 million and $88 million, respectively. Johnson Controls has been the major customer of the joint venture since it was formed in 1998.
     Johnson Controls will pay approximately $525 million, including the assumption of debt, for the remaining 51% of the company. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed in the fall of 2004. The acquisition is anticipated to provide incremental revenue to Johnson Controls of $250 million and to be accretive to its earnings in fiscal 2005. The investment is expected to be initially funded with short-term debt.
     The business operates four manufacturing plants and one lead recycling plant in Mexico, as well as one manufacturing plant in Brazil. In addition to supplying Johnson Controls, the business is a major supplier to the Mexican and South American battery aftermarkets, including hypermarkets, wholesalers and original equipment service channels. It supplies batteries under the two leading brands, LTH and AMERICA in Mexico and under HELIAR in South America. Approximately 20% of sales are to the original equipment market, which includes such customers as Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Volkswagen and Nissan, and 80% to the aftermarket  Walmart, Autozone, Costco, and Carrefour, among others. The joint venture has 3,100 employees.
 
     "Grupo IMSA and Johnson Controls have built a good business together, a business that enjoys efficient operations, excellent quality and high customer satisfaction ratings. Today's announcement provides new opportunities to strengthen our global leadership position and further leverage our capabilities and technologies to improve quality and meet the demands of our customers," said Gregg Sherrill, president of the Johnson Controls battery business.
     "Johnson Controls position as market leader in the U.S. and Europe perfectly complements our leadership in Mexico and South America. Johnson Controls will bring innovative manufacturing technologies and processes focused on further improvements to quality and customer satisfaction," said Felipe Muzquiz, president of the joint venture.
     Johnson Controls is the world's largest manufacturer of lead-acid automotive batteries, with the leading market share in North America and Europe. In the U.S., Johnson Controls supplies original equipment batteries to DaimlerChrysler, Ford, Honda, Nissan and Toyota. The company supplies private-label aftermarket batteries for Advance Auto, AutoZone, Costco, Interstate Battery System of America, Pep Boys, Sears, Wal-Mart and others. In Europe, the company manufactures original equipment automotive batteries for BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, PSA, Volkswagen and other automakers. It is a major supplier to the European independent aftermarket, including customers such as Robert Bosch GmbH, hypermarkets such as Carrefour, and wholesalers. Johnson Controls also manufactures the Optima spiral-wound automotive battery, available worldwide.
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For additional information, visit .
www.johnsoncontrols.com
Grupo Imsa, a holding company, dates back to 1936 and is today one of Mexico's leading diversified industrial companies, operating in four businesses: steel processed products; automotive batteries and related products; steel and plastic construction products; and aluminum and other related products. Grupo Imsa operates manufacturing and distribution facilities in Mexico, the United States, Europe and throughout Central and South America. In 2003 the Company's sales reached US$2.8 billion, of which close to 55% was generated outside Mexico. Grupo Imsa shares trade on the Mexican Stock Exchange (IMSA) and, in the United States, on the NYSE (IMY).
Johnson Controls has made forward-looking statements in this document that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future risks and may include words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates" or similar expressions. For those statements, the company cautions that numerous important factors, including receiving regulatory approvals, completion of the transaction, U.S. dollar exchange rates and those discussed in the company's Form 8-K (dated January 7, 2004), could affect the company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the company.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, July 20, 2004 ... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI,) the leading supplier of automotive systems and facility management and control, today reported record results for its third quarter of fiscal 2004 with diluted earnings per share increasing 15% to $1.15 from $1.00 for the prior year. Sales increased 14%, reaching $6.8 billion, reflecting strong growth by each of its businesses.
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John M. Barth said, "Our customers continue to give us the opportunity to help them reduce their costs and improve their competitiveness, which provides growth for Johnson Controls. In each of our industries, the business environment continues to be challenging. Our employees' dedication to continuous improvement, however, enables us to sustain our record of success."
     
Third-Quarter Results
     Sales for the third quarter of 2004 increased 14% to $6.8 billion from $6.0 billion last year. Automotive revenues increased 16% and controls sales rose 7%. Sales growth excluding the benefit of foreign currency translation was a strong 11%. Operating income was $365 million, 15% above the comparable prior year amount of $316 million. Net income of $222 million versus $190 million for 2003, represents a 17% increase. Diluted earnings per share totaled $1.15 versus $1.00 for the third quarter of 2003.
     Automotive Group sales of seating, interiors and batteries increased 16% for the quarter as the company continued to achieve strong market share growth. Industry vehicle production in Europe and North America is estimated to have been comparable to the prior year. The revenue growth and improved efficiencies resulted in an 18% increase in operating income.
     Controls Group sales were 7% higher in the third quarter of 2004 due to higher revenues involving installed systems, technical services and facilities management contracts. Operating income increased 8% due to the higher sales volume. The backlog of uncompleted control system installation and service contracts increased 4% over the amount at June 30, 2003, reflecting growth in orders from the domestic new construction systems market and for technical service worldwide.
 
July 20, 2004 Page 2
     Total debt to total capitalization at June 30, 2004, decreased to 31.6% from 35.1% at March 31, 2004. Capital spending during the third quarter increased to $188 million from $171 million for the prior year, primarily in support of future new vehicle interior programs.
Full-Year Outlook
     Johnson Controls updated its guidance for the 12 months ended September 30, 2004. The expectations are unchanged from that issued on April 15, 2004 except where noted.
-Consolidated sales growth of 14-16% (revised from growth of 13-15%) and double-digit increases in operating income and net income,
-Automotive Group sales growth of 13-18%; North American light vehicle production of approximately 15.9 million units and European production of 19.8 million units; and, a flat to slightly lower operating margin percentage,
-Controls Group sales growth of 10-12% and a slightly lower operating margin percentage.
Acquisition of South American Battery Business
     Johnson Controls announced on July 19 its intention to acquire 100% of its automotive battery joint venture with Grupo Imsa S.A. de C.V. in Mexico. Johnson Controls said it would pay approximately $525 million including the assumption of debt, subject to normal adjustments, for the remaining 51% interest. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to close in fall 2004. Johnson Controls, which is the joint venture's largest customer, said it anticipates the transaction adding approximately $250 million in revenues and being accretive to its fiscal 2005 earnings. The investment is anticipated to be initially funded with short-term debt.
(dollars in millions)
Supplemental Financial Estimates
 
July 20, 2004 Page 3
     Johnson Controls analyst conference call can be accessed on July 20 at . The audio begins at 11 am (Eastern) while the supporting slides are accessible at 8 am (Eastern).
www.johnsoncontrols.com
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Johnson Controls has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2004 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future risks and may include words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates" or similar expressions. For those statements, the company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, as well as those factors discussed in the company's Form 8-K (dated January 7, 2004) could affect the company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the company.
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Page 6
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
 
Page 7
1. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) are computed by dividing net income, after deducting dividend requirements on the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings are computed by deducting from net income the after-tax compensation expense which would arise from the assumed conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, which was $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003, and $0.1 and $1.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Effective December 31, 2003, the Company converted all the outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock (see Note 3) and accordingly there was no after-tax compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2004. Diluted weighted average shares assume the conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, if dilutive, plus the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents which would arise from the exercise of stock options. All prior year share and per share amounts disclosed in this document have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split discussed in Note 2.
2. Stock Split
On November 19, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the common stock payable January 2, 2004. All prior year share and per share amounts disclosed in this document have been restated to reflect the two-for-one stock split. The stock split resulted in the issuance of approximately 90.5 million additional shares of common stock. In connection with the stock split, the par value of the common stock was changed from $.16 2/3 per share to $.04 1/6 per share.
3. Conversion of Preferred Stock
Effective December 31, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the redemption of all the outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, held in the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), and the trustee converted the preferred stock into common shares in accordance with the terms of the preferred stock certificate. The conversion resulted in the issuance of approximately 7.5 million common shares (on a post-split basis) and was accounted for through the exchange of preferred stock into common stock and capital in excess of par value. The conversion of the preferred shares held by the ESOP has been reflected within Shareholders' Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of June 30, 2004. The conversion of these shares will result in their inclusion in the weighted average common stock outstanding used to compute basic EPS. The conversion of preferred shares has always been assumed in the determination of diluted EPS. The Company's ESOP was financed with debt issued by the ESOP, and the final ESOP debt payment was paid by the Company in December 2003.
4. Segment Information
Management's evaluation of the performance of the Company's segments excludes the restructuring costs (see Note 5) and the pension gain (see Note 6) recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004.
 
Page 8
5. Restructuring Costs
In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company executed a restructuring plan involving cost structure improvement actions and incurred $82.4 million of restructuring costs included within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. These costs primarily relate to workforce reductions and plant consolidations. The majority of the actions are concentrated on Automotive Group operations in Europe as the Company focuses on significantly improving profitability in the region in future years. A modest portion of the actions involve Controls Group activities. No further costs related to these actions are anticipated.
6. Japanese Pension Settlement Gain
During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a pension gain related to certain of the Company's Japanese pension plans established under the Japanese Welfare Pension Insurance Law. In accordance with recent amendments to this law, the Company completed the transfer of certain pension obligations and related plan assets to the Japanese government which resulted in a non-cash settlement gain of $84.4 million.
7. Bond Redemption
In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company redeemed in full $125 million of outstanding principal of its 8.2% bonds due in 2024 plus accrued interest which resulted in a pre-tax charge of approximately $6.0 million included within Miscellaneous  net in the Consolidated Statement of Income.


