FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20050119155447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 18, 2005, Johnson Controls, Inc. issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated January 18, 2005 reporting the results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 issued by the registrant on January 18, 2005.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the first quarter analyst conference call issued by the registrant on January 18, 2005.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 19, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, January 18, 2005 ... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported that net income rose 2% on a sales rise of 11% for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The company also confirmed its previous outlook for the full year.
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John M. Barth said, "We are pleased that our first quarter results were in line with our forecast for sales growth and solid operating results despite difficult market conditions. We believe that as the year progresses, our quality and cost improvement initiatives will enable us to achieve another year of record results. "
First-Quarter Results
     For the three months ended December 31, 2004, sales increased 11% to $7.0 billion from $6.3 billion last year, reflecting growth by both the automotive and controls businesses. The effect of foreign currency translation added approximately $240 million to sales in the current quarter.
     As projected by the company in October 2004, operating income declined from the record level a year ago. Operating income was $245.4 million, 3% below the prior year's $253.8 million.
     Miscellaneous-net expense declined nearly $20 million over the prior year primarily due to lower foreign currency losses. The base effective tax rate declined to 26.5% (including continuing and discontinued operations) from 29%. Additional one-time tax benefits were $11.5 million in the current quarter, down from $17.0 million a year ago.
     Income from continuing operations increased to $160.5 million ($.83 per diluted share) compared with $159.2 million ($.83 per diluted share) for the prior year. Net income increased 2% to $168.4 million ($.87 per share) from $164.5 million ($.86 per share) reported for the first quarter of 2004.
     On January 10, the company announced an agreement to sell its engine electronics business for approximately 330 million euro. The first-quarter earnings for this business have been reported separately as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
January 18, 2005 Page 2
     Automotive Group sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 increased 11% over the prior year primarily due to new interior systems business, the benefit of foreign currency translation, and higher battery sales. Industry vehicle production was down 2.4% in North America and is estimated to be down 2% from the prior year in Europe. While operating income increased 2% from the prior year, operating margin declined as price reductions and higher raw material costs outweighed the benefits of the higher volume and operational improvements.
     Controls Group sales to the nonresidential buildings market increased 9% over the prior year due to higher revenues associated with facility management contracts, the benefit of foreign currency translation, and stronger system installation and services sales. Operating income was $11.8 million below the prior year amount due to expenses associated with cost reduction and growth initiatives.
     The backlog of uncompleted control system installation contracts at the end of the quarter was 10% higher than one year ago. The company achieved double-digit growth in orders in both North America and Europe reflecting an acceleration in demand in the domestic new construction market as well as success in penetrating the systems and technical services markets.
     Capital expenditures in the current quarter of $144 million were down from $199 million last year. Total debt to total capitalization decreased to 33.3% from 33.9% at September 30, 2004.
Outlook
     Johnson Controls confirmed its outlook for the full year of 2005, including sales growth of 8-10% and double-digit increases in operating and net income.
     "As we indicated three months ago," Mr. Barth said, "our full-year outlook assumes that Johnson Controls will again outperform in its markets despite challenging conditions. Uncertainties continue in the automotive industry both with respect to vehicle sales and production schedules, as well as with markedly higher raw material costs. These issues remain as risks to our Automotive Group forecast for 8-10% sales growth and a slight improvement in operating margin. While some negative pressure on our second-quarter Automotive Group performance is likely, we believe that our focus on operational improvements and exceeding our customers' expectations will enable us to complete the year in line with our plans."
     Mr. Barth added that "We are also maintaining our guidance for our Controls Group, with sales growth of 8-10% and a moderate decline in operating margin. We are encouraged by the growth in first-quarter orders, and we are confident that our strategies to improve our operational performance will produce significant increases in controls sales and operating income in the second half of this year."
 
January 18, 2005 Page 3
     Mr. Barth concluded, "We appreciate the support of our customers, employees, and suppliers as we work to become even stronger partners with each of them. Our commitment to their success should enable us to sustain our track record for achieving superior shareholder returns."
Fiscal 2005 Full-Year Financial Estimates
(1)
(dollars in millions)
Forecasts for fiscal 2005 are unchanged from guidance issued October 8, 2004 except where noted.
Assumption for the relationship between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar changed from $1.20 to $1.30.
(1)
Decreased from $125-130 million.
(2)
Base rate includes continuing and discontinued operations. Incremental one-time benefits in near-term periods are possible due to adjustments related to valuation reserves and audit settlements.
(3)
Decreased from $685-705 million.
(4)
     Johnson Controls has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2005 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future risks and may include words such as "believes," "forecasts," "expects," "outlook" or similar expressions. For those statements, the company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the ability to increase prices due to higher raw material costs, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, as well as those factors discussed in the company's Form 8-K (dated October 26, 2004) could affect the company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the company.
     
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
 
 
 
 
1. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) are computed by dividing net income, after deducting dividend requirements on the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings are computed by deducting from net income the after-tax compensation expense which would arise from the assumed conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, which was $0 and $0.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Effective December 31, 2003, the Company converted all the outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and accordingly there was no after-tax compensation expense for the three months ended December 31, 2004. Diluted weighted average shares assume the conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, if dilutive, plus the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents which would arise from the exercise of stock options.
2. Discontinued Operations
On January 10, 2005, the Company announced that it will sell its engine electronics business to Valeo for approximately 330 million euro, or approximately $437 million. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The engine electronics business generated revenues of approximately $425 million in fiscal 2004. This non-core business was a part of the Sagem SA automotive electronics business that was acquired in fiscal 2002.
3. Segment Information

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


