FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20050110165048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 10, 2005, Johnson Controls, Inc. entered into an agreement to sell its engine electronics business to Valeo. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
99 Press release issued by the registrant on January 10, 2005
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
     Milwaukee, Wisconsin. . . . January 10, 2005 . . . .Johnson Controls, Inc., today announced an agreement to sell its engine electronics business to Valeo.
     Valeo, based in Paris, France, will pay approximately Euro 330 million for the business, which manufactures engine management systems, engine control units, electric motor drives and engine components, including injectors, ignition and emission control components and sensors. It generated fiscal 2004 revenues of approximately Euro 350 million, excluding intra-company sales.
     The business has its headquarters and an R&D center in Pontoise, France and operates plants in Sainte Florine and Sabl sur Sarthe, France.
     The transaction is expected to be completed during the first quarter of calendar 2005 and is subject to regulatory approvals.
     The business was a part of the Sagem automotive electronics business that Johnson Controls acquired in 2001 to expand and strengthen its electronic capabilities for automotive interiors.
     Johnson Controls was advised by Societ Generale.
Johnson Controls is a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In the automotive market, it is a major supplier of integrated seating and interior systems, and batteries. For nonresidential facilities, Johnson Controls provides control systems and services including comfort, energy and security management. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, has headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.


