FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20060720172125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 20, 2006, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2006. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated July 20, 2006 reporting the results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2006 issued by the registrant on July 20, 2006.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2006 third quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on July 20, 2006.
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, July 20, 2006 ... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported record sales and earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
     Sales for the 2006 third quarter increased 19% to $8.4 billion from $7.1 billion for the 2005 quarter. Building efficiency sales were double the level a year ago and power solutions sales were one-third higher. Interior experience sales were lower than the year-ago period reflecting weaker automotive markets. Operating income for the 2006 quarter was $280 million, including a restructuring charge of $197 million, compared with $368 million last year. Income from continuing operations, including non-recurring tax benefits, was $336 million versus $255 million the prior year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were 30% higher, reaching $1.70 vs. $1.31.
     "Johnson Controls continues to assertively grow its businesses and take actions to improve its profitability," said John M. Barth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "The integration of our 2005 acquisitions, that have expanded our market penetration and strengthened our capabilities for our customers, is progressing well. The set of restructuring initiatives announced during the third quarter reflect our long-term commitment to growth and strengthened competitive positions."
 
July 20, 2006 Page 2
     "This quarter's results show the value of Johnson Controls business and geographic diversification," said Mr. Barth. "While cost recoveries from automotive customers and battery replacement demand were lower than our expectations in April, these shortfalls were mitigated by strong performances by our European interiors and North American building efficiency systems businesses. The total building efficiency business performed in line with our expectations, and for the first time became the largest contributor to consolidated earnings, generating 40 percent of our operating income in the quarter."
     Mr. Barth added, "As we implement our strategies for sustained profitable growth, our employees have experienced significant change. We wish to thank them for their support and dedication to our customers and to our goals."
     The restructuring charge ($137 million after-tax) is associated with initiatives to improve the profitability of interior experience and building efficiency operations in North America and Europe. The tax benefits of $141 million are primarily associated with the reversal of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance in Germany. The net impact of these two items was a benefit of $0.02 per share.
     The company's financial position continued to strengthen due to earnings growth and an improvement in working capital. Total debt to total capitalization was 42% at June 30, 2006 versus 45% at the end of the second quarter of 2006.
Business Results
     Discussion of the business results excludes the impact on operating income of the restructuring charge.
     Building efficiency sales were $2.8 billion compared with 2005 revenues of $1.4 billion. The increase was primarily due to the additional revenues associated with the December 2005 York acquisition as well as double-digit growth in the North American services market and global facility management. Operating income also doubled, reaching $190 million versus $93 million a year ago reflecting the higher revenues as well as successful acquisition integration initiatives. The backlog of uncompleted contracts at June 30, 2006 was $3.7 billion, an increase of 16% over the prior year amount (pro-forma including York). Johnson Controls added that its domestic systems and services orders from the nonresidential buildings market were up substantially, aided by its ability to offer customers a complete control and mechanical equipment solution for building comfort and energy efficiency.
 
July 20, 2006 Page 3
     Interior experience sales were $4.7 billion, down 6% from $5.0 billion in 2005 reflecting lower sales in North America, Europe and Asia. While North American production of light vehicles was only 1% lower, Johnson Controls sales decreased 8% in the region due to its exposure to weak light truck demand impacting every automaker in the domestic market. The company's sales in Europe were 6% below the prior year, approximately in line with automotive vehicle production, which reflects fewer production days in the current year. Operating income was $168 million, down 16% from $200 million. North American income declined as lower sales and higher commodity and launch costs offset improvements in operational efficiencies. European results were markedly higher reflecting substantial improvements in its cost structure and operational performance.
     Power solutions sales increased 33% to $886 million from $665 million mainly due to volume from the July 2005 acquisition of the Delphi battery business and a full quarter of recently launched original equipment and aftermarket business. Operating income increased 59% to $119 million, from $75 million for the prior year. The current year amount includes a $33 million positive legal settlement associated with the recovery of previously incurred environmental costs.
Fourth-Quarter and 2006 Full-Year Outlook
     Johnson Controls said that it continues to anticipate full-year sales approximating $32 billion as the positive impact of a stronger Euro versus the U.S. dollar will be offset by an unfavorable vehicle production mix. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2006 are forecast in a range of $5.25 to $5.30 for the full year and $1.86 to $1.91 for the fourth quarter. The full-year forecast, which includes the restructuring charge and one-time tax benefits, was narrowed from the $5.25 to $5.35 range issued in April 2006 to reflect lower than anticipated North American interior experience sales and operating income.
Johnson Controls is a global leader in interior experience, building efficiency and power solutions. The company provides innovative automotive interiors that help make driving more comfortable, safe and enjoyable. For buildings, it offers products and services that optimize energy use and improve comfort and security. Johnson Controls also provides batteries for automobiles and hybrid electric vehicles, along with systems engineering and service expertise. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For additional information, visit http://www.johnsoncontrols.com.
 
July 20, 2006 Page 4
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2006 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements, including information concerning possible or assumed future risks. For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the ability to mitigate the impact of higher raw material and energy costs, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, labor interruptions, the successful integration of York, the ability to execute on restructuring actions according to anticipated timelines and costs and the ability to deliver planned levels of profitability in Germany, as well as those factors discussed in the Company's Form 8-K filing (dated January 19, 2006) and the risk factors as filed with the SEC January 9, 2006, could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
 
Johnson Controls July 20, 2006 Page 5
 
Johnson Controls July 20, 2006 Page 6
 
Johnson Controls July 20, 2006 Page 7
 
Johnson Controls July 20, 2006 Page 8
 
Johnson Controls July 20, 2006 Page 9
 
1. Business Unit Summary
 Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
 Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Interior experience
 Designs and manufactures automotive batteries for the replacement and original equipment markets.
Power solutions
2. Acquisitions
On December 9, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of York International Corporation (York). The Company paid $56.50 for each outstanding share of common stock plus the assumption of debt. The total value of the acquisition was approximately $3.2 billion, including approximately $565 million of debt.
3. Discontinued Operations
In December 2005, the Company acquired York's Bristol Compressor business as part of the York acquisition. On July 12, 2006, the Company announced its agreement to divest its 50% interest in Scroll Technologies, Inc. The Company is continuing to explore strategic alternatives for the remainder of the business.
In February 2005, the Company completed the sale of its engine electronics business to Valeo for approximately $316 million euro, or approximately $419 million. This non-core business was a part of the Sagem SA automotive electronics business that was acquired in fiscal 2002 and was included in the interior experience  Europe segment.
In March 2005, the Company completed the sale of its Johnson Controls World Services Inc. subsidiary to IAP Worldwide Services Inc. for approximately $260 million. This non-strategic business was acquired in fiscal 1989 from Pan Am Corporation and was included in the building efficiency segment.
The Bristol Compressor business, the engine electronics business and the Johnson Controls World Services Inc. subsidiary are reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
4. Restructuring Costs
As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global operations, the Company announced a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and recorded a $197 million restructuring charge.
The restructuring charge relates to cost reduction initiatives mainly in its interior experience and building efficiency businesses and includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations. The company expects to substantially complete the initiatives over the next 12 months. The automotive-related restructuring is focused on improving the profitability associated with the manufacturing and supply of instrument panels, headliners and other interior components in North America. In Europe, it reflects actions intended to increase the efficiency of its seating component operations. The charges associated with the building efficiency business mostly relate to Europe where the company is launching its systems redesign initiative. Systems redesign was successfully completed in the North American building efficiency branch offices last year, resulting in improved profitability and increased market opportunities.
 
5. Income Taxes
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company's estimated annual base effective income tax rate for continuing operations declined to 21.0% from the 24.3% used in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and from the 25.7% for the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased income in certain foreign jurisdictions with a rate of tax lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, decreased income in higher-tax jurisdictions and certain tax planning initiatives. In addition, the Company reversed a valuation allowance of $32 million attributable to Mexican operating loss and tax credit carryforwards based on an assessment of expected future profitability and also recorded $31 million of tax expense related to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company completed an analysis of its German operations and, based on cumulative income over a 36 month period, an assessment of expected future profitability in Germany and finalization of the 2006 restructuring plan, determined that it was more likely than not that the tax benefits of certain operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in Germany would be utilized in the future. As such, the Company reversed $131 million attributable to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the current quarter as a credit to income tax expense. In addition, the Company recorded a $10 million tax benefit from a favorable tax audit conclusion in a foreign jurisdiction and recognized an $18 million discrete period tax benefit related to third quarter 2006 restructuring costs using a tax rate of 30.6%.
The table below shows a reconciliation of the tax provision, as reported, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2006 (amounts in millions):

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


