FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20061031175159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2006, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three months and fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated October 25, 2006 reporting the results of operations for the three months and fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 issued by the registrant on October 25, 2006.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2006 fourth quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on October 25, 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, October 25, 2006 ... Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported that its fourth-quarter 2006 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 24% to $1.86, compared with $1.50 for the fourth quarter of 2005.
     "We are pleased to report record sales and earnings for the quarter and the 2006 fiscal year. The steps we have taken during the past year have transformed Johnson Controls into a diversified industrial growth company," said John M. Barth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "In 2006, we managed through market challenges while strengthening our leadership positions. Our employees have done an outstanding job serving the needs of our customers, and I thank them."
     Company sales for the 2006 fourth quarter totaled $8.2 billion, up 18% from $6.9 billion in 2005. Operating income was $505 million, up 16% from last year's $436 million. Income from continuing operations was $368 million versus $292 million, an increase of 26%.
     Building efficiency sales were up 108%, and operating income increased 118% in the quarter, primarily due to the December 2005 acquisition of York International. Sales totaled $3.1 billion compared with $1.5 billion in the prior year. On a pro-forma basis, North America achieved double-digit growth in commercial systems and services, and residential products. Sales in other world regions and in facility management also increased. Operating income increased to $253 million from $116 million due primarily to the higher volume, expanded margins and realization of cost synergies. The backlog of uncompleted contracts was $3.7 billion17% higher than the prior year (pro-forma, including York).
,
 
Johnson Controls, Inc. Page 2
     Power solutions sales increased 14%, to $981 million from $863 million last year. The increase reflects higher unit shipments in all geographic regions as well as higher unit prices resulting from the pass-through of increased lead costs. Operating income for the quarter was $140 million, up 23% from $114 million as a result of the higher volume and increased quality and productivity.
     Interior experience sales were $4.0 billion, 11% below last year's $4.5 billion due primarily to lower North American vehicle production volume. North America sales were 19% lower reflecting the overall market and unfavorable light truck exposure. European interiors sales were down 3% in the quarter, in-line with overall production levels. Operating income declined 46% to $112 million from $206 million. Higher margins in Europe resulting from improvements in operational efficiencies were more than offset by the effects of lower volumes in North America and Japan.
Full-year results
     For the 2006 fiscal year, Johnson Controls sales totaled $32.2 billion compared to $27.5 billion for 2005, an increase of 17%. Income from continuing operations increased 36% to $1.0 billion from $757 million due to higher operating income, a lower 2006 tax rate and non-recurring tax benefits. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2006 were $5.25 versus $3.90.
     At September 30, 2006, the company's total debt to total capitalization was approximately 39%, down from 42% at June 30, 2006.
2007 Outlook
     On October 9, 2006, the company issued guidance on its expected financial performance in 2007. Johnson Controls anticipates a sales increase of approximately 6%, to $34 billion. Earnings from continuing operations are estimated to increase 14%, to about $6.00 per diluted share. For the first quarter of 2007, the company expects earnings from continuing operations of $0.80  $0.85 cents per diluted share.
     "We will continue to increase our competitive advantage globally by leveraging the technology, people and resources of Johnson Controls to better serve our customers. In addition, our financial strength will enable us to take advantage of multiple growth opportunities throughout the company. We expect that 2007 will be our 61 consecutive year of sales increases and 17 straight year of earnings increases," Mr. Barth said.
st
th
 
Johnson Controls, Inc. Page 3
     Johnson Controls is a global leader in interior experience, building efficiency and power solutions. The company provides innovative automotive interiors that help make driving more comfortable, safe and enjoyable. For buildings, it offers products and services that optimize energy use and improve comfort and security. Johnson Controls also provides batteries for automobiles and hybrid electric vehicles, along with systems engineering and service expertise. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), founded in 1885, is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For additional information, visit .
http://www.johnsoncontrols.com
     
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal year 2007 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements, including information concerning possible or assumed future risks. For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the ability to mitigate the impact of higher raw material and energy costs, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, labor interruptions, the ability to realize acquisition related integration benefits, and the ability to execute on restructuring actions according to anticipated timelines and costs, as well as those factors discussed in the company's
Form 8-K
filing (dated October 6, 2006) and the risk factors as filed with the SEC January 9, 2006, could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Page 6
 
Page 7
 
Page 8
 
Page 9
1. Business Unit Summary
 Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
 Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Interior experience
 Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
2. Acquisitions
On December 9, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of York International Corporation (York). The Company paid $56.50 for each outstanding share of common stock. The total cost of the acquisition, excluding cash acquired, was approximately $3.1 billion, including approximately $563 million of debt.
3. Discontinued Operations
In December 2005, the Company acquired York's Bristol Compressor business as part of its acquisition of York and has engaged a firm to actively market the business. The Bristol Compressors business included Scroll Technologies, Inc., an unconsolidated joint venture that was divested in September 2006. The Company continues to explore strategic alternatives for the remainder of the Bristol Compressor business.
In March 2005, the Company completed the sale of its Johnson Controls World Services Inc. subsidiary, which had been included in the Company's former building efficiency segment, to IAP Worldwide Services Inc. for approximately $260 million.
In February 2005, the Company completed the sale of its engine electronics business to Valeo for approximately 316 million euro. This non-core business was a part of the Sagem SA automotive electronics business that was acquired in fiscal 2002 and was included in the interior experience - Europe segment.
The Bristol Compressor business, the Johnson Controls World Services Inc. subsidiary and the engine electronics business are reported as discontinued operations in the condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
4. Restructuring Costs
As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global operations, the Company announced a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 and recorded a $197 million restructuring charge.
The restructuring charge relates to cost reduction initiatives mainly in its interior experience and building efficiency businesses and includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations. The Company expects to substantially complete the initiatives by the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. The interior experience business related restructuring is focused on improving the profitability associated with the manufacturing and supply of instrument panels, headliners and other interior components in North America and increasing the efficiency of seating component operations in Europe. The charges associated with the building efficiency business mostly relate to Europe where the Company has launched a systems redesign initiative.
 
Page 10
5. Income Taxes
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company completed an analysis of its German operations and based on cumulative income over a 36 month period, an assessment of expected future profitability in Germany and finalization of the 2006 restructuring plan, determined that it was more likely than not that the tax benefits of certain operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in Germany would be utilized in the future. As such, the Company reversed $131 million attributable to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the third quarter as a credit to income tax expense. In addition, the Company recorded a $10 million tax benefit from a favorable tax audit conclusion in a foreign jurisdiction and recognized a $19 million discrete period tax benefit related to third quarter 2006 restructuring costs using a blended statutory tax rate of 30.6%.
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company reversed a valuation allowance of $32 million attributable to Mexican operating losses and tax credit carryforwards based on an assessment of expected future profitability and also recorded $31 million of tax expense related to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
The table below shows a reconciliation from the Company's effective income tax rate of 21.0% to the provision for income taxes, as reported, for fiscal year 2006 (amounts in millions):
6. New Accounting Standards
In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 47 (FIN 47), "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143." Under FIN 47, companies must accrue for costs related to legal obligations associated with the retirement, disposal, removal or abandonment of tangible long-lived assets when the timing and/or method of settlement of the obligation is conditional on a future event and if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated.
Effective September 30, 2006, the Company adopted FIN 47 and recorded a non-cash, after-tax charge of $7 million, which is reported in the fiscal year 2006 condensed consolidated statement of income as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The charge primarily relates to legal obligations at owned properties in the power solutions business.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


