FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20070424151826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2007, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2007. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated April 20, 2007 reporting the results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2007 issued by the registrant on April 20, 2007.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2007 second quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on April 20, 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     April 20, 2007 . . . . Milwaukee, Wisconsin. . . . Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported record sales and income from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2007. Income from continuing operations increased 62% on a 4% increase in revenues. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.31 versus $0.83 last year. Excluding the impact of non-recurring tax benefits, earnings per share from continuing operations totaled $1.12.
     The company today also increased its full fiscal-year outlook to reflect the benefits of a lower base effective tax rate and improved operational efficiencies.
     "We are pleased with our performance in the second quarter, which extends our track record for consistent, profitable growth. Our results also demonstrate how diversification helps us withstand short-term downturns in any single business or region. Building efficiency and power solutions had strong quarters, and with improved performance in automotive experience since earlier this year, we achieved strong double-digit earnings growth," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John M. Barth. "We continue to invest in our businesses on a global basis to extend our market leadership positions and take advantage of significant growth opportunities. I thank our employees worldwide for their support and dedication, which is the foundation of our success."
Second-Quarter 2007 Results
     For the three months ended March 31, 2007, net sales increased 4% to a record $8.5 billion from $8.2 billion last year, reflecting higher building efficiency and power solutions revenues and the positive impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by lower automotive experience sales.
 
     Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests was $282 million, 35% higher than the prior year's $209 million. The increase reflects higher volume and margin expansion by building efficiency and power solutions, partially offset by lower North American automotive experience results.
     The tax rate in the second quarter was 6%, reflecting a cumulative reduction in the annual base effective tax rate to 21% from 23% as well as a $0.19 per share non-recurring tax benefit. In the 2006 second quarter, the effective tax rate was 17.3% (see income taxes footnote). The company expects the base effective tax rate for the remainder of fiscal 2007 to be 21%.
     Income from continuing operations totaled $262 million, an increase of 62% compared with $162 million last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.31 versus $0.83 last year. Excluding the impact of non-recurring tax benefits in both the 2007 and 2006 quarters, earnings per share from continuing operations increased 37% to $1.12 from $0.82.
     For the second quarter of 2007, building efficiency sales increased 19% to $3.0 billion from $2.5 billion in 2006 primarily reflecting double-digit growth in North America, Europe and Asia for systems and services. The growth was driven by increased customer demand for Johnson Controls' full range of solutions to reduce building operating costs while improving comfort, safety and productivity. Global workplace solutions sales grew significantly in the quarter as the result of new contracts and the expansion of existing projects globally. Segment income increased 149%, to $137 million in 2007 from $55 million in the second quarter of 2006. The increased profitability in the quarter was attributable to the higher volume, the growth of higher margin service revenues and the impact of improved operational efficiencies, including branch redesign initiatives in Europe, as well as the absence of prior-year acquisition-related costs. The backlog of uncompleted non-residential contracts was $3.9 billion, up 18% from $3.3 billion in the previous year, reflecting increased demand for systems and services in North America, Europe and Asia.
     Power solutions sales were up 13% to $988 million from $874 million due to higher lead cost pass-throughs and favorable foreign currency. Unit shipments were slightly lower due to weaker European demand. Segment income increased 21% to $93 million from $77 million in the second quarter of 2006. A higher mix of premium products and improved operational efficiencies overcame the negative effects of record high lead costs.
 
     Automotive experience sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 totaled $4.5 billion, 5% lower than in 2006 due primarily to lower North American volumes at most automakers. European sales increased primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency. Industry light vehicle production in North America was 8% lower while European production is estimated to have been flat. Segment income decreased 20%, to $121 million versus $152 million in the prior year. Europe and Asia reported higher segment income, but the increases were more than offset by lower North American results. North America's second-quarter performance improved to break-even versus its first-quarter 2007 loss. The sequential improvement in North America resulted from operational efficiencies and lower launch costs.
     The company repaid approximately $270 million in debt in the quarter, bringing total debt to total capitalization at March 31, 2007 to 37%, versus 39% at December 31, 2006.
     Johnson Controls also reported that it had completed the sale of its Bristol Compressors business in the second quarter. Bristol had been accounted for as a discontinued operation since its acquisition as part of York International in December 2005.
2007 Full Year and Third-Quarter Outlook
     The company increased its fiscal 2007 sales and earnings outlook and provided a forecast for third-quarter earnings.
     In October 2006, Johnson Controls forecast that its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 would increase 14% to approximately $6.00. It now expects earnings per share from continuing operations to increase 19%  20%, to $6.25  $6.30, excluding the second quarter non-recurring tax benefit of $0.19 per share. The change reflects the lower base effective tax rate of 21% and improved operational efficiencies. The company also raised its revenue guidance for the year from $34 billion to approximately $34.5 billion.
     Johnson Controls expects that its financial position will remain strong, and anticipates that its ratio of total debt to total capitalization will decline to approximately 30% by the end of fiscal 2007.
     For the third quarter of 2007, the company anticipates diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $1.95, an increase of 15% over the third quarter of 2006.
 
     "I am confident that Johnson Controls is on track to deliver another year of record revenues and earnings," Mr. Barth said. "As anticipated, the second half of the year will be stronger than the first half, due to the seasonality of our building efficiency business, the increasing cost synergies from the York acquisition and the recovery of our North American automotive business. We continue to focus on bringing new value to our customers and maintaining our disciplined approach to cost reduction and quality. Executing on these commitments will enable us to continue our track record for profitable growth in 2007 and beyond."
Johnson Controls is a global leader in automotive experience, building efficiency and power solutions. The company provides innovative automotive interiors that help make driving more comfortable, safe and enjoyable. For buildings, it offers products and services that optimize energy use and improve comfort and security. Johnson Controls also provides batteries for automobiles and hybrid electric vehicles, along with systems engineering and service expertise. Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI) has 136,000 employees in more than 1,000 locations serving customers in 125 countries. Founded in 1885, the company is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For additional information, please visit
http://www.johnsoncontrols.com
.
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2007 that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements. The Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels and schedules, the ability to mitigate the impact of higher raw material and energy costs, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of commercial contracts, labor interruptions, the ability to realize acquisition related integration benefits, and the ability to execute on restructuring actions according to anticipated timelines and costs, as well as those factors discussed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filing (dated December 5, 2006) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 5
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 6
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 7
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 8
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 9
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 10
1. Business Unit Summary
- Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Automotive experience -
- Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
Products and systems consist of automotive experience and power solutions products and systems and building efficiency installed systems. Services are building efficiency technical and facility management services.
Beginning in fiscal 2007, Company management, including the chief operating decision maker, adjusted their measurement of business unit performance, changing from operating income to segment income, which represents income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests excluding net financing charges. The primary reason for the modification was to reflect equity income in earnings for each business operation given its growing significance to the Company's global business strategies.
2. Acquisitions
In December 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of York International Corporation. The Company paid $56.50 for each outstanding share of common stock. The total cost of the acquisition, excluding cash acquired, was approximately $3.1 billion, including approximately $563 million of debt.
3. Discontinued Operations
In the current fiscal quarter, the Company recorded a loss of approximately $48 million ($30 million after-tax) related to the sale of businesses reported as discontinued operations, primarily Bristol Compressors.
 
Johnson Controls April 20, 2007 Page 11
4. Income Taxes
The Company's estimated annual base effective income tax rate for continuing operations declined to 21.0% from the 23.0% used in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, primarily due to continuing tax planning initiatives. The adjustment to the effective tax rate resulted in a $5 million cumulative reduction in income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2007.
In the current fiscal quarter, the tax provision also decreased as a result of a $22 million tax benefit realized by a change in tax status of an automotive experience subsidiary in the Netherlands. The change in tax status resulted from a voluntary tax election that produced a deemed liquidation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company received a tax benefit in the U.S. for the loss from the decrease in value from the original tax basis of this investment. This election changed the tax status of the respective subsidiary from a controlled foreign corporation (i.e., taxable entity) to a branch (i.e., flow through entity similar to a partnership) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is thereby reported as a discrete period tax benefit in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."
In the current fiscal quarter, the Company also reduced its tax liability by $15 million due to the favorable resolution of certain income tax audits. The Company's federal income tax returns and certain foreign income tax returns for fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2003 remain under various stages of audit by the Internal Revenue Service and respective foreign tax authorities.
The tables below show a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes for the three and six months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 (in millions):

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


