FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20070322171836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Ms. Susan M. Kreh, age 45, was elected a Vice President and the Corporate Controller of Johnson Controls, Inc. (the Company), succeeding Mr. Jeffrey G. Augustin, who assumed the role of Vice President Finance for the Companys Building Efficiency Group. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Kreh served 22 years with PPG Industries, Inc., a manufacturer of coatings, fiberglass and specialty chemicals, most recently as Corporate Treasurer since January 2002. As a result of this election, Ms. Kreh was designated as the Companys Principal Accounting Officer in replacement of Mr. Augustin. Ms. Kreh received an award of 15,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock under the Company's 2007 Stock Option Plan and pursuant to the terms of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Option or Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), which was approved by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors on March 21, 2007. The Award Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and i ncorporated herein by reference. Ms. Kreh is a party to the Companys form of executive employment agreement, including the change of control supplement, which the Company filed as an exhibit to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 23, 2005, and the Companys form of indemnity agreement, which the Company filed as an exhibit to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 21, 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not applicable. (b) Not applicable. (c) Not applicable. (d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are being filed herewith: 10.1 Form of Johnson Controls, Inc. Option or Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 10.1
Grant  Terms for Nonqualified Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
Johnson Controls, Inc. has adopted the 2007 Stock Option Plan to permit awards of stock options or stock appreciation rights to be made to certain key employees of the Company or any Affiliate. The Company desires the employee to remain in employment with the Company or an Affiliate by providing the Participant with a means to acquire or to increase his/her proprietary interest in the Company's success.
. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the following meanings:
Definitions
Other capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the meaning given in the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby mutually covenant and agree as follows:
The vesting schedule of the Award is as follows:
The Award shall expire ten years from the Grant Date.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the Participant's employment shall be deemed to be terminated due to early or normal retirement if the Participant is then eligible to receive immediate early or normal retirement benefits under the provisions of the Company's or its Affiliates' defined benefit pension plans; or, absent a defined benefit pension plan, if the Participant has worked at least ten years for the Company and its Affiliates and is at least 55 years old, or retires with five years of service and is at least 65 years old.
This Agreement, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contain all of the provisions applicable to the Award and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Participant.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by one of its duly authorized officers as of the date of Grant.
JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC.
Jerome D. Okarma Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel


