FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20081023155816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2008, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three months and fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated October 23, 2008 reporting the results of operations for the three months and fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 issued by the registrant on October 23, 2008.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2008 fourth quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on October 23, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, October 23, 2008. . . Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) today reported record sales of $38.1 billion for its 2008 fiscal year, up 10% from $34.6 billion in 2007, reflecting growth in the company's Building Efficiency, Power Solutions and Automotive Experience businesses.
     "We achieved a record year with solid profitability despite the unprecedented market challenges and economic volatility," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen A. Roell. "In recognition of the difficult environment, we took pre-emptive action in the fourth fiscal quarter to improve and better align our cost structure with future market conditions. This will improve our long-term profitability and further enhance our competitive advantage."
     Net income for the year totaled $979 million with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.63.
     Segment income, which excludes the previously announced $495 million restructuring charge, increased 10% to $2.1 billion versus $1.9 billion last year. Excluding the charge, net income totaled $1.4 billion, up 8% from $1.3 billion in 2007. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.33 compared to $2.10 ($2.16 including the impact of 2007 non-recurring tax adjustments).
Fourth Quarter Results
     For the 2008 fourth quarter, the company reported record sales of $9.3 billion, an increase of 3% versus $9.0 billion last year as a result of higher Building Efficiency and Power Solutions revenues. Net income was $16 million, with diluted earnings per share of $0.03.
     Segment income for the 2008 quarter was $605 million, down 8% from $660 million in 2007. Net income excluding the restructuring charge was $439 million, 6% lower than $466 million in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.73 versus $0.78 last year, in-line
 
with the company's forecasts. As expected, higher commodity costs and costs associated with the Plastech joint venture reduced earnings by a total of $0.09 in the 2008 quarter.
     Building efficiency sales were $3.9 billion, up 8% compared with 2007 revenues of $3.6 billion. The increase reflects higher Global Workplace Solutions and North American systems sales as well as growth in Europe and other international markets. Segment income was $316 million, level with 2007 as the benefits of higher volume and improved underlying margins were offset by the timing of commodity cost recoveries and the costs associated with growth investments in its sales force and information technology. The backlog of uncompleted commercial systems and services contracts at September 30, 2008 was $4.7 billion, 12% higher than the prior year amount reflecting increasing demand for energy efficiency projects, particularly in the U.S. Federal government and education markets.
     Automotive experience sales in the quarter were $4.1 billion, 2% lower than $4.2 billion in 2007. North American sales decreased 12%, less than the overall industry vehicle production decrease of 17% due to the incremental revenues associated with the Plastech joint venture. European sales increased 4%, however, excluding the impact of currency, sales decreased 6%, approximately in line with industry production. Sales in the Asia/Pacific region increased 8% due to higher volumes in Japan. Segment income was $147 million, down 20% from $183 million last year. The decrease reflects the impacts of the lower North American volume, the costs associated with Plastech and higher launch costs in support of new automotive interior programs, which more than offset significant improvements in operating performance globally.
     Power solutions sales increased 7% in the 2008 quarter to $1.34 billion from $1.25 billion last year due to higher unit selling prices. Unit volumes were slightly lower due to lower automotive production levels. Segment income declined to $142 million, down 12% from $161 million in the 2007 fourth quarter due to higher non-lead commodity costs.
2009 Outlook
     The company re-affirmed the fiscal 2009 guidance it provided on October 14, 2008, for diluted earnings per share of $1.95 to $2.10.
     For the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the company said it expects earnings of $0.22 to $0.24 per diluted share, down from $0.39 in the 2008 quarter.
 
     The first quarter forecast reflects expected increases in Building Efficiency and Power Solutions income due to higher underlying revenues and operational improvements in both businesses. These improvements are expected to be more than offset by a loss in the Automotive Experience business as a result of sharply lower automotive production in North America and Europe and the costs associated with restructuring initiatives. The company forecasts that its automotive results will improve sequentially throughout the year as vehicle production stabilizes, commodity prices decrease and cost reductions gain momentum.
     "While we face uncertainties in 2009, we begin the year in a strong position with record backlogs in our automotive and buildings businesses, global market leadership and our proven ability to improve our cost structure," said Mr. Roell. "Johnson Controls will aggressively execute on our strategies and continue to invest for sustainable long-term growth."
Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI) is the global leader that brings ingenuity to the places where people live, work and travel. By integrating technologies, products and services, we create smart environments that redefine the relationships between people and their surroundings. Our team of 140,000 employees creates a more comfortable, safe and sustainable world through our products and services for more than 200 million vehicles, 12 million homes and one million commercial buildings. Our commitment to sustainability drives our environmental stewardship, good corporate citizenship in our workplaces and communities, and the products and services we provide to customers. For additional information, please visit
http://www.johnsoncontrols.com/.
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this presentation pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2009 and beyond that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements and include terms such as "outlook," "expectations," "estimates," or "forecasts." For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, financial distress of key customers, energy prices, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of or changes to commercial contracts, liquidity, the ability to execute on restructuring actions according to anticipated timelines and costs as well as other factors discussed in Item 1A of Part II of the Company's most recent Form 10-Q filing (filed August 8, 2008) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 4
 
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 5
 
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 6
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 7
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 8
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 9
1. Business Unit Summary
 Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
 Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Automotive experience
 Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
Beginning in fiscal year 2007, company management, including the chief operating decision maker, adjusted their measurement of business unit performance, changing from operating income to segment income, which represents income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests excluding restructuring charges and net financing charges. The primary reason for the modification was to reflect equity income in earnings for each business operation given its growing significance to the company's global business strategies.
2. Acquisitions
On July 1, 2008, the company announced the acquisition of the interior product assets of Plastech Engineered Products, Inc. (Plastech), which filed for bankruptcy in February 2008. The company owns 70% of the new entity with certain Plastech term lenders holding the minority portion. The cost of the acquisition, net of cash acquired, was approximately $169 million.
3. Discontinued Operations
In the second quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company recorded losses of approximately $49 million ($30 million after-tax) and $4 million ($3 million after-tax), respectively, related to the sale of businesses reported as discontinued operations, primarily Bristol Compressors.
4. Restructuring Costs
As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global operations, the company announced a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and recorded a $495 million restructuring charge.
The restructuring charge relates to cost reduction initiatives in its automotive experience, building efficiency and power solutions businesses and includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations. The company expects to substantially complete the initiatives by early 2010. The automotive-related restructuring is in response to the fundamentals of the European and North American automotive markets. The actions target reductions in the company's cost base by decreasing excess manufacturing capacity due to lower industry production and the continued movement of vehicle production to low-cost countries, especially in Europe. The restructuring actions in building efficiency are primarily in Europe where the company is centralizing certain functions and rebalancing its resources to target the geographic markets with the greatest potential growth. Power solutions actions are focused on optimizing its regional manufacturing capacity.
 
Johnson Controls October 23, 2008 Page 10
5. Income Taxes
In June 2006, FASB issued FASB interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. The company adopted FIN 48 as of October 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the company increased its existing reserves for uncertain tax positions by $93 million. The increase was recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to shareholders' equity of $68 million and an increase to goodwill of $25 million related to prior year business combinations. As of the adoption date, the company had gross tax affected unrecognized tax benefits of $616 million of which $475 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. Also as of the adoption date, the company had accrued interest expense and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits of $75 million (net of tax benefit). The net change in interest and penalties during the twelve months ended September 30, 2008 was not material. The company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense or goodwill, when applicable.
In the second quarter and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2007, the company reduced its income tax liability by $15 million and $13 million, respectively, due to the favorable resolution of certain tax audits. The company's federal income tax returns and certain foreign income tax returns for various fiscal years remain under various stages of audit by the Internal Revenue Service and respective foreign tax authorities. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, management believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its annual tax provisions included amounts sufficient to pay assessments, if any, which may be proposed by the taxing authorities. At September 30, 2007, the company has recorded a liability for its best estimate of the probable loss on certain of its tax positions, the majority of which is included in other noncurrent liabilities in the condensed consolidated statements of financial position. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities, may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, the tax provision decreased as a result of a $22 million tax benefit realized by a change in tax status of an automotive experience subsidiary in the Netherlands.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, the tax provision increased $20 million as a result of a change in the German federal income tax rate.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, the tax provision decreased $7 million due to a nonrecurring tax benefit related to the use of a valuation allowance with a joint venture.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the company recorded a $61 million discrete period tax benefit related to fourth quarter 2008 restructuring costs using a blended statutory tax rate of 12.4%.
The tables below show a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes for the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 (in millions):
6. Stock Split
On July 25, 2007, the company's Board of Directors declared a three-for-one split of the company's common stock payable October 2, 2007 to shareholders of record on September 14, 2007. All share and per share amounts disclosed in this document have been restated to reflect the three-for-one stock split. The stock split resulted in the issuance of approximately 396 million additional shares of common stock. In connection with the stock split, the par value of the common stock was changed from $.04 1/6 per share to $.01 7/18 per share.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


