FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20100423103054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 23, 2010, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2010. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated April 23, 2010 reporting the results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2010 issued by the registrant on April 23, 2010.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2010 second quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on April 23, 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MILWAUKEE, April 23, 2010 . . . For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, Johnson Controls reported a double-digit increase in sales with each of the company's businesses reporting higher profitability. The company also increased its estimate for 2010 earnings.
"We are pleased with our second quarter results. Our automotive and power solutions businesses are executing very well on the higher production levels in North America and Europe. The Building Efficiency business has started to see signs of recovery with global orders increasing by 5% on a year-over-year basis," said Stephen A. Roell, Johnson Controls Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Globally our markets are improving, and each of the businesses generated significant margin improvements through our focus on cost and quality. I want to thank our employees for their dedication and commitment to our customers."
Highlights for the company's second quarter of 2010 include:
The 2010 quarter includes a non-cash tax charge of $18 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, associated with the recent U.S. health care reform legislation. The 2009 quarter included restructuring charges and other non-recurring items which negatively impacted earnings per diluted share by $0.17.
Page 1
 
Adjusting for the non-recurring items in both periods, the company's results were as follows:
The company said it believes that using the adjusted numbers provides a more meaningful comparison of its underlying operating performance.
Automotive Experience sales in the quarter increased 70% to $4.2 billion versus $2.4 billion last year due primarily to higher production volumes and new program launches in all geographic regions. North American revenues increased 85% to $1.6 billion from $0.9 billion last year, while European sales were up 57% to $2.1 billion from $1.3 billion in the 2009 quarter. Sales in Asia increased to $430 million from $224 million in 2009 while China revenues, which are mostly generated through unconsolidated joint ventures, rose 91%. Johnson Controls has a 45% share of the Chinese automotive seating market.
Automotive Experience reported segment income of $189 million in the current quarter, compared with a loss of $269 million (excluding non-recurring items) last year due to higher volumes, operational efficiencies and significantly higher profitability of its automotive joint ventures. The North America segment margin of 6.7% reflects the benefits of our restructuring activities and increased production volumes. Asia segment margin, including the non-consolidated joint ventures in China, was also 6.7%. European segment margin was 2.4%, lower than other geographic regions due to the magnitude of new product launches.
Automotive production levels continue to recover in both North America and Europe due to the continued replenishment of auto dealer inventories as well as increasing consumer demand. As a result, Johnson Controls increased its forecasts for North American and European auto production in its 2010 fiscal year to 10.9 million units and 16.7 million units, respectively.
Power Solutions sales in the second quarter of 2010 increased 30% to $1.2 billion from $0.9 billion last year reflecting higher aftermarket and original equipment unit shipments. Aftermarket unit sales increased 9% due to new customers and improved markets. The company noted that incremental volume associated with the award of all of WalMart's automotive battery business is expected to commence in the company's fourth fiscal quarter. Higher global automotive production and incremental volume from new customers resulted in a 44% increase in original equipment battery sales.
Power Solutions segment income was $134 million versus $66 million in the second quarter of 2009. The higher 2010 income is the result of the higher volumes as well as improved capacity utilization associated with the completion of restructuring activities.
Page 2
 
The company is accelerating investments to expand lead acid battery production capacity in China. Due to rapid market expansion and share gains in the aftermarket sector, the company's power business in China has the potential to be the size of its current European business within five years. Additionally, the construction of a new lead recycling facility in Mexico is proceeding as expected. The company also received one of the necessary permits related to construction of a lead recycling center in South Carolina. Increasing the in-house recycling of lead is expected to have a positive impact on margins over the next two years.
Building Efficiency sales in the 2010 second quarter were $3.0 billion, level with last year. Double-digit increases in Global Workplace Solutions sales and residential HVAC offset declines in Western Europe and North America. Johnson Controls reported that its second quarter orders increased by 5% globally and that its backlog of uncompleted contracts in the second quarter was $4.4 billion. The backlog was down 4% versus the previous year but improved versus the 2010 first quarter. In addition, the pipeline of potential new business was higher in the second quarter. The company saw increased demand in the educational, U.S. Federal government and energy efficiency solutions markets. Second quarter orders associated with the America Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) were $143 million. Johnson Controls noted that second quarter ARRA bookings were larger than the 2010 first quarter and fiscal 2009 bookings combined.
The Building Efficiency segment reported segment income of $104 million, up 16% compared to $90 million in 2009 with higher margins in all parts of the business except North American Service and Europe. Non-recurring charges in the 2010 quarter were comparable to those in the year-ago period.
Johnson Controls increased its earnings guidance for 2010:
Page 3
 
"We continue to be encouraged by the steady improvement in the automotive industry and therefore have increased our earnings outlook for 2010," Mr. Roell said. "In the first half of our fiscal year we have demonstrated the ability to capitalize on the higher production levels with strong execution occurring in all geographic regions. Strong cash flow from our operations has allowed us to accelerate our investments in growth initiatives across all of our businesses."
Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI) is the global leader that brings ingenuity to the places where people live, work and travel. By integrating technologies, products and services, we create smart environments that redefine the relationships between people and their surroundings. Our team of 130,000 employees creates a more comfortable, safe and sustainable world through our products and services for more than 200 million vehicles, 12 million homes and one million commercial buildings. Our commitment to sustainability drives our environmental stewardship, good corporate citizenship in our workplaces and communities, and the products and services we provide to customers. For additional information, please visit http://www.johnsoncontrols.com/.
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this presentation pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2010 and beyond that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements and included terms such as "outlook," "expectations," "estimates," or "forecasts." For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, financial distress of key customers, energy prices, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of or changes to commercial contracts, liquidity, changes in the levels or timing of investments in commercial buildings, the ability to execute on restructuring actions according to anticipated timelines and costs as well as other factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company's most recent Form 10-k filing (filed November 24, 2009) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
Page 4
 
April 23, 2010 Page 5
 
April 23, 2010 Page 6
 
April 23, 2010 Page 7
 
April 23, 2010 Page 8
 
April 23, 2010 Page 9
 
April 23, 2010 Page 10
1. Business Unit Summary
 
 Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
 Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Automotive experience
- Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
2. Restructuring Costs
As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global operations, the Company announced a restructuring plan in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 and recorded a $230 million restructuring charge. This restructuring charge included a $46 million impairment charge of which $25 million related to the North America automotive experience segment, $16 million related to the Asia automotive experience segment and $5 million related to the Europe automotive experience segment.
The restructuring charge relates to cost reduction initiatives in its automotive experience, building efficiency and power solutions businesses and includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations. The Company expects to substantially complete the initiatives in 2010. The automotive-related restructuring is in response to the fundamentals of the European, North American and Japanese automotive markets. The actions target reductions in the company's cost base by decreasing excess manufacturing capacity due to lower industry production and the continued movement of vehicle production to low-cost countries, especially in Europe. Power solutions' actions are focused on optimizing its regional manufacturing capacity to reflect lower overall demand for original equipment batteries resulting from lower vehicle production levels.
3. Impairment Charges
The Company reviews long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets with definite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
At March 31, 2010, the Company recorded a $19 million impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment in the North America automotive experience segment as part of the Company's revised restructuring actions. This impairment charge was offset by a decrease in the Company's restructuring reserve for $19 million due to lower employee severance and termination benefit cash payouts than previously calculated.
At December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a $77 million and $33 million impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment in the automotive experience business in North America and Europe, respectively. The impairment charges are included in cost of sales in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 31, 2008, the Company also recorded a $152 million charge related to an impairment of an equity investment in a 48%-owned joint venture with US Airconditioning Distributors, Inc. in the Company's building efficiency business. This impairment charge is included in equity loss in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
April 23, 2010 Page 11
4. Income Taxes
The Company's annual estimated effective tax rate before consideration of discrete tax items for the year ending September 30, 2010 is 18 percent. The effective tax rate inclusive of discrete tax items for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 is 22.7 percent, as compared to 46.3 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
5. Earnings per Share
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators used to calculate basic and diluted earning per share (in millions):

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


