FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20100524125842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On May 20, 2010, Johnson Controls, Inc. sent a letter to Visteon Corporation expressing interest in acquiring Visteon Corporation's interiors and electronics businesses. A copy of the letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. On May 21, 2010, Johnson Controls, Inc. issued a related press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
May 20, 2010
Dear Don,
I am responding to your letter, dated May 17, 2010, regarding our offer to acquire the Interiors and Electronics businesses of Visteon for $1.25 billion dollars in cash. Your letter asked for more detail on the assets and liabilities encompassed by our offer.
Our offer encompasses all of the assets and certain of the liabilities associated with the segment data for the Interiors and Electronic businesses as referenced in Visteon's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q dated March 31, 2010 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including:
We understand that some product lines (e.g., lighting, power train components, etc.) are commingled with the predominately Interiors and Electronics plants. We confirm that our offer includes all assets and personnel of the facilities that are predominately related to the Interiors and Electronics businesses. If you would require services from assets that are presently commingled, we could discuss mutually acceptable arrangements.
Our offer excludes the following:
Finally, we would ask for a transition services agreement for a mutually acceptable time horizon for the benefit of your employees, suppliers, and customers.
 
Johnson Controls is familiar with the Interiors and Electronics businesses of Visteon and believes the transaction can be consummated in a very expeditious manner. Assuming your cooperation so that we can start diligence immediately, we would seek to complete due diligence within approximately 30 days. Next steps include a Phase 1 environmental review of the facilities, negotiation and execution of mutually acceptable transaction documents, completion of a high level due diligence focused primarily on the Interiors and Electronics business segments, legal compliance, and agreements with the respective workers' councils. We do not anticipate any regulatory issues with our transaction that would materially extend the normal bankruptcy timetable for closing.
Don, your letter indicated that we have not demonstrated an ability to move promptly in the past, based on our review of your Electronics business over two years ago. As you recall, when we conducted our due diligence on that business, the delay was caused in large part by the constant change in the financials that Visteon provided as we progressed through the process. We had also understood that the reporting structures of the different segments were commingled and aligned more on a geographic basis rather than on a business segment basis. Characterizing Johnson Controls' ability to move slowly without that context seems a bit unfair. Over the past two years, I'm confident that your team has improved the financial reporting of the business segments. We also believe that your team has made a number of significant moves that resolved some of the operational and commercial issues that existed at that time. Together, this should greatly expedite the due diligence and compress the required time frame.
When I contacted you January of this year to re-initiate discussions and to express our interest in acquiring both the Electronics and Interiors businesses, you indicated that you would contact me in two months as things progressed. When we did not hear from you, I wrote to you on May 7 because I felt it was important to express our continuing interest and provide you with our valuation for the two Business segments. You waited 10 days to respond to my letter, and your response simply asked for more detailed information about our proposal. While we are providing this information in this letter, we feel the process could be expedited and enhanced if we can immediately commence discussions.
We understand the urgency of the situation and are prepared to begin with due diligence as soon as you are available, and to act in an expeditious manner on all fronts to execute this transaction between the two Companies. To that end, we have retained Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and JPMorgan Securities to assist us in this transaction.
We met with our Board on Tuesday of this week to update them again on our plans and have received its support to pursue this transaction. As a Fortune 100 Company and with the strength of our balance sheet, we have the scale and resources to ensure that this transaction can be completed in an efficient manner. And just as importantly, we believe that Johnson Controls provides an attractive future for the Visteon employees. We further note that, to the extent that we are able to find additional value through the due diligence process, we may be able to increase our price for the two businesses.
Given that you are undergoing a public bankruptcy process, and the importance of this transaction to Johnson Controls, our intent is to publicly issue a press release tomorrow morning.
Please contact me at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,
Stephen A. Roell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Exhibit 99.2
Johnson Controls Expresses Interest in Acquisition of Visteon Interiors and Electronics Businesses
MILWAUKEE, May 21, 2010 //  Johnson Controls, Inc. (NYSE: JCI) announced that it sent a letter yesterday to Visteon Corporation expressing interest in acquiring Visteon's interiors and electronics businesses. Johnson Controls is offering $1.25 billion in cash for the businesses, subject to due diligence, the execution of a definitive agreement and the approval of the Johnson Controls Board of Directors.
PRNewswire-FirstCall
"We believe that Visteon's interiors and electronics businesses would be an excellent strategic fit with our Automotive Experience business," said Stephen A. Roell, Johnson Controls Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "This acquisition would significantly expand our automotive interior technologies and capabilities. It would provide global scale and complementary products to our automotive electronics offerings. Importantly, it would broaden and deepen our global automotive customer relationships."
Visteon interiors and electronics businesses are leaders in the fast-growing Chinese automotive interiors industry. Johnson Controls, with 23 joint ventures and 40 manufacturing facilities in China, is the leading provider of automotive seating systems. In China, both Visteon and Johnson Controls do business primarily through non-consolidated joint ventures. With the addition of Visteon's operations, Johnson Controls Automotive Experience consolidated and non-consolidated revenues in China could exceed an estimated $7 billion in 2011.
Visteon's major customers and Chinese joint venture partner support the transaction, according to Johnson Controls. The company said it believes its offer would provide superior value to Visteon's stakeholders and that it could move quickly, assuming Visteon's cooperation. It also said it expects the acquisition would have meaningful cost synergies.
Johnson Controls initially contacted Visteon regarding its interest in the interiors and electronics businesses in January 2010 and made subsequent contacts on May 7 and yesterday. No other terms or details of the proposed transaction have been disclosed, pending customary due diligence and negotiations. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and JPMorgan Securities have been retained by Johnson Controls to assist in the transaction.
Forward looking statement: Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") had made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements and included terms such as "outlook," "expectations," "estimates," or "forecasts." For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, the strength of geographic economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of or changes to commercial contracts, the ability to complete proposed acquisitions, as well as other factors discussed in the Company's Form 8k (filed March 9, 2009) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI) is the global leader that brings ingenuity to the places where people live, work and travel. By integrating technologies, products and services, we create smart environments that redefine the relationships between people and their surroundings. Our
 
team of 130,000 employees creates a more comfortable, safe and sustainable world through our products and services for more than 200 million vehicles, 12 million homes and one million commercial buildings. Our commitment to sustainability drives our environmental stewardship, good corporate citizenship in our workplaces and communities, and the products and services we provide to customers. For additional information, please visit .
http://www.johnsoncontrols.com/
SOURCE Johnson Controls, Inc.


