FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20110120101943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 20, 2011, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2010. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated January 20, 2011 reporting the results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2010 issued by the registrant on January 20, 2011.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2011 first quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on January 20, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MILWAUKEE, January 20, 2011 . . . For the first quarter of fiscal 2011, Johnson Controls reported record sales and earnings with double-digit improvements by all three businesses. The company also increased its estimate for full fiscal year 2011 earnings.
Highlights of the company's first quarter of 2011 include:
"Johnson Controls achieved record revenues and earnings despite the fact that our automotive and buildings markets are still far below historic norms," said Stephen A. Roell, Johnson Controls Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our Automotive Experience and Power Solutions businesses have recovered over the past year and continue to improve. Building Efficiency sales and earnings increased at a double-digit pace with continued strong order and backlog rates. We now have solid momentum in all three of our businesses."
Business results
Automotive Experience sales in the quarter increased 12% to $4.6 billion versus $4.1 billion last year due primarily to higher production volumes and launches of new automotive seating and interior programs. Revenues increased 9% in North America where automotive production in the quarter increased 7%. European sales, excluding currency, were up 13% compared with a 6% production growth. Asia sales increased 49%, while revenues in China, which are mostly generated through non-consolidated joint ventures, increased 37% to $1.0 billion. Johnson Controls has 24 joint ventures in China operating 47 manufacturing plants. It holds a 45% share of the Chinese auto seating market.
Page 1
 
Automotive Experience reported segment income of $177 million in the current quarter, up 46% compared with $121 million last year. The increase is due to higher volumes and higher profitability of its automotive joint ventures.
The recently announced acquisitions of Hammerstein and Keiper/Recaro are expected to close in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2011, respectively. Johnson Controls said that in 2011 the Hammerstein and Keiper/Recaro acquisitions are expected to contribute approximately $700 million in revenues and to be earnings per share (EPS) neutral, with earnings from the businesses being offset by higher interest expense. In addition, the company expects to incur acquisition and integration-related costs, which have not yet been quantified. In 2012, the acquisitions are forecast to generate approximately $1.4 billion in revenues and to be EPS accretive by approximately $0.10 per share.
Power Solutions sales in the first quarter of 2011 increased 21% to $1.6 billion from $1.3 billion reflecting higher aftermarket and original equipment unit shipments. Aftermarket unit sales increased 20% reflecting market share gains in North America and Europe. Higher automotive production contributed to a 17% increase in global original equipment battery sales.
Demand for the company's automotive batteries increased at a double-digit pace in China where Johnson Controls expects to expand its manufacturing capacity from four million units today to 30 million units by 2015. The company's second Chinese manufacturing plant has opened as scheduled in the second fiscal quarter of 2011. Johnson Controls will commence construction of its third Chinese plant, in Chongqing, next month.
Power Solutions segment income increased 20% to $217 million versus $181 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2010. The higher 2011 income is primarily the result of the higher volumes.
During the first quarter, the company's new battery recycling facility in Mexico began initial production as planned with full production expected by mid-year. In addition, the company said construction was progressing as expected on a new recycling facility in South Carolina. Upon completion of these facilities, Johnson Controls expects to be able to internally recycle approximately 50% of its North American lead requirements versus a historic level of approximately 15%.
Building Efficiency sales in the 2011 first quarter were $3.4 billion, up 13% from $3.0 billion last year. Sales were higher across all segments, led by a 31% increase in Asia and a 21% increase in Global Workplace Solutions. Shipments of chillers increased at a double-digit pace globally, with higher demand in all geographic regions. Johnson Controls reported that its backlog at December 31, 2010 was $4.9 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year. In addition, orders received in the current quarter increased by 17% versus last year.
Page 2
 
Building Efficiency segment income was $139 million, up 34% compared to $104 million in 2010 as a result of the higher volumes, with strong double-digit improvements in North America Systems, Global Workplace Solutions and Asia. Johnson Controls said that in the first quarter it increased investments to support growth initiatives by adding new sales force, energy engineers and service providers globally.
Increased sales, earnings guidance for 2011
Johnson Controls updated its assumptions and earnings guidance for 2011:
"We are increasingly confident in our expectations for record results in 2011," said Mr. Roell. "As we look beyond 2011, we are using the strength of our balance sheet to accelerate near-term investments to achieve long-term, sustainable growth. We believe our recent acquisitions and higher levels of capital spending will enable us to consistently outperform our markets and increase shareholder value."
Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial leader serving customers in more than 150 countries. Our 137,000 employees create quality products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Our commitment to sustainability dates back to our roots in 1885, with the invention of the first electric room thermostat. Through our growth strategies and by increasing market share we are committed to delivering value to shareholders and making our customers successful.
Page 3
 
Johnson Controls, Inc. ("the Company") has made forward-looking statements in this presentation pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2011 and beyond that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed forward-looking statements and included terms such as "outlook," "expectations," "estimates," or "forecasts." For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, energy prices, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of or changes to commercial contracts, changes in the levels or timing of investments in commercial buildings as well as other factors discussed in the Company's Form 8k (filed November 24, 2009) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
Page 4
 
Johnson Controls January 20, 2011 Page 5
 
Johnson Controls January 20, 2011 Page 6
 
Johnson Controls January 20, 2011 Page 7
 
January 20, 2011 Page 8
1. Business Unit Summary
 
 Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
 Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Automotive experience
 Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
2. Income Taxes
The Company's annual estimated effective tax rate for the year ending September 30, 2011 is 19 percent. The base effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is 19 percent as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 base effective rate of 18 percent. The first quarter of fiscal 2010 rate inclusive of discrete tax items was 1.3 percent.
3. Earnings per Share
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators used to calculate basic and diluted earning per share (in millions):

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


