FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20111118095002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On November 16, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") elected Mark P. Vergnano to the Board as a member of the class of directors whose terms expire at the January 25, 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Mr. Vergnanos election to the Board was effective immediately. Mr. Vergnano has not yet been appointed to serve as a member of any committee of the Board. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Vergnano and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Vergnano was elected a director. Mr. Vergnano is Executive Vice President, E. I. du Pont De Nemours and Company (DuPont), Wilmington, Delaware, and has served in that capacity since 2009. Mr. Vergnano is responsible for the Building Innovations, Protection Technologies, Sustainable Solutions, Electronics & Communications, Chemicals & Fluoroproducts, and Titanium Technologies businesses. He also leads the company's safety, health and environment, sales, marketing, sustainability and communication functions. There are no transactions in which Mr. Vergnano has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. The Board of Directors has made a determination that Mr. Vergnano is independent pursuant to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange as well as the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Board of Directors also determined Mr. Vergnano to be financially literate. The Companys Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy, as amended as of October 1, 2011, is applicable to Mr. Vergnano. In connection with Mr. Vergnanos election to the Board on November 16, 2011, he will receive a pro rata portion of the current $110,000 annual cash retainer the Company pays to its non-employee directors as well as a pro rata portion of the annual $130,000 retainer that is paid in shares of the Companys common stock. The shares of common stock will be issued pursuant to the Companys 2003 Director Stock Plan. The Board of Directors also took action at the November 16, 2011 meeting to increase the size of the Board from ten to eleven members effective upon Mr. Vergnanos election. This action did not require an amendment to the Companys By-laws because the By-laws provide for a range in the size of the Board of not less than ten nor more than thirteen members, with the Board being required to determine the size of the Board within this range by resolution. In connection with Mr. Vergnanos election, the Company issued a press release on November 16, 2011. The text of the press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated November 16, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MILWAUKEE, Nov. 16, 2011  The Board of Directors of Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), a global diversified company in the buildings and automotive industries, today elected Mark P. Vergnano to serve as a director, effective immediately.
Mr. Vergnano is an executive vice president for DuPont, responsible for the company's Building Innovations, Protection Technologies, Sustainable Solutions, Electronics & Communications, Chemicals & Fluoroproducts, and Titanium Technologies businesses. Mr. Vergnano, who has held a variety of leadership positions during his 31-year career with DuPont, also leads the company's safety, health and environment, sales, marketing, sustainability and communication functions.
"We are delighted that Mark has joined our Board of Directors. He brings decades of business and functional leadership experience and global perspective, and we look forward to his counsel and many contributions as we look to build on the market leadership positions of our businesses," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen A. Roell.
Mr. Vergnano earned a master's degree in business administration from Virginia Commonwealth University and a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the University of Connecticut. He serves on the board of directors for the Delaware Council for Economic Education and the U.S. National Safety Council, as well as the advisory boards for the University of Connecticut School of Engineering and the University of Delaware Lerner College of Business and Economics.
Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial leader serving customers in more than 150 countries. Our 162,000 employees create quality products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Our commitment to sustainability dates back to our roots in 1885, with the invention of the first electric room thermostat. Through our growth strategies and by increasing market share we are committed to delivering value to shareholders and making our customers successful. In 2011, Corporate Responsibility Magazine recognized Johnson Controls as the #1 company in its annual "100 Best Corporate Citizens" list. For additional information, please visit http://www.johnsoncontrols.com
About Johnson Controls


