FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20121116113459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 14, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") elected Julie L. Bushman to the Board effective upon the close of the Board meeting on that date. Also at that time, the Board appointed Ms. Bushman to serve as a member of the Audit and Corporate Governance Committees of the Board.
Ms. Bushman is Executive Vice President Safety & Graphics Business of 3M Company, St. Paul, Minnesota (diversified technology company), and has served in that capacity since October 2012. Ms. Bushman served as Executive Vice President Safety, Security and Protection Services Business of 3M Company from 2011 to October 2012, as Vice President and General Manager, Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Division of 3M Company from 2007 to 2011, and as Division Vice President, Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Division from 2006 to 2007.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Bushman and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Bushman was elected a director. There are no transactions in which Ms. Bushman has an interest requiring disclosure on the part of the Company under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Board of Directors has made a determination that Ms. Bushman is independent pursuant to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange as well as the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
The Company's Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy, as amended as of January 1, 2012, is applicable to Ms. Bushman. In connection with Ms. Bushman's election to the Board on November 14, 2012, she will receive a pro rata portion of the current $110,000 annual cash retainer the Company pays to its non-employee directors as well as a pro rata portion of the annual $130,000 retainer that is paid in shares of the Company's common stock. The shares of common stock will be issued pursuant to the Johnson Controls, Inc. 2003 Stock Plan for Outside Directors.
The Board also took action at the November 14, 2012 meeting to increase the size of the Board from 11 to 12 members; the Board elected Ms. Bushman as a director to fill the vacancy created by the increase in the number of directors. This action did not require an amendment to the Company's By-Laws because the By-Laws provide for a range in the size of the Board of not less than 9 nor more than 13 members, with the Board being required to determine the size of the Board within this range by resolution.
A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Bushman's election to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, Robert L. Barnett and Robert A. Cornog will retire from the Board effective December 31, 2012, consistent with the retirement policy under the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines. Mr. Barnett has served as a director since 1986. Mr. Cornog has served as a director since 1992 and as Lead Director since 2010.
The Board also acted at the November 14, 2012 meeting to reduce its size from 12 to 10 members effective upon the retirements of Messrs. Barnett and Cornog from the Board effective December 31, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
MILWAUKEE, Nov. 14, 2012The Board of Directors of Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI), a global diversified company in the buildings and automotive industries, today elected Julie L. Bushman to serve as a director, effective immediately.
Ms. Bushman is an executive vice president for 3M Company, responsible for the company's Safety and Graphics business. Prior to her current position, she served as executive vice president, Safety, Security and Protection Services for 3M.
"We are pleased that Julie has joined our Board of Directors. She brings to the board, among other skills and qualifications, manufacturing and technical expertise, management and information technology experience, and leadership in product safety initiatives from her roles in the management of a number of different 3M departments and divisions," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen A. Roell.
Ms. Bushman earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin, River Falls.
About Johnson Controls:
Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial leader serving customers in more than 150 countries. Our 162,000 employees create quality products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Our commitment to sustainability dates back to our roots in 1885, with the invention of the first electric room thermostat. Through our growth strategies and by increasing market share we are committed to delivering value to shareholders and making our customers successful. In 2012, recognized Johnson Controls as the #5 company in its annual "100 Best Corporate Citizens" list. For additional information, please visit
Corporate Responsibility Magazine
http://www.johnsoncontrols.com


