FILE:JCI/JCI-8K-20120420104956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2012, Johnson Controls, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2012. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated April 20, 2012 reporting the results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2012 issued by the registrant on April 20, 2012.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slide presentation for the fiscal year 2012 second quarter quarterly update conference call issued by the registrant on April 20, 2012.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Johnson Controls Reports Second Quarter Earnings of $0.53 Per Share With 4% Sales Growth
MILWAUKEE, April 20, 2012. . . Johnson Controls, Inc. (NYSE: JCI) today announced earnings of $0.53 per diluted share, in-line with its previously announced financial guidance. Highlights of the company's second quarter of 2012 include:
 
 
 
"As we stated at the start of the quarter, Johnson Controls faced a mix of opportunities and challenges. Our businesses did a good job of managing through these conditions and our second quarter results are consistent with our expectations," said Johnson Controls Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Roell.
Business results excluding non-recurring items
Automotive Experience sales in the 2012 second quarter increased 7% to $5.6 billion versus $5.2 billion last year due primarily to the incremental revenues associated with the 2011 acquisitions as well as launches of new automotive seating and interior programs. Revenues increased 12% in North America compared to a 17% increase in industry production. European sales were 4% higher versus an industry production decline of 4% while Asia sales were up 6%. Revenues in China, which are mostly generated through non-consolidated joint ventures, were 5% higher than the 2011 quarter, at $1.0 billion.
 
 
Automotive Experience reported segment income of $236 million in the current quarter, down 4% versus the second quarter of 2011. North America segment income fell 17% to $121 million versus $145 million in the same period last year. European segment income dropped 35% to $34 million compared to $52 million in the second quarter of 2011. In Asia, higher profitability in Japan resulted in a segment income increase of 62% to $81 million versus $50 million last year.
As previously indicated, North America second quarter earnings were negatively impacted by costs associated with the start-up of a metals plant as well as higher engineering and launch costs associated with new business wins. European earnings were negatively impacted by operating inefficiencies from certain programs launched over the past two years. The company has increased resources dedicated to improving its launch efficiencies and quality. Johnson Controls said it believes these actions will continue to make an increasingly positive impact on earnings through the remainder of 2012 and beyond.
Building Efficiency sales in the 2012 second quarter were $3.6 billion, slightly higher than last year, led by a 10% revenue increase in Asia and 6% increase in North America Systems and Global Workplace Solutions. Sales in Europe were lower than last year, especially in southern Europe where the economies are weakest. Residential HVAC sales declined by double-digits in the quarter, consistent with the year-over-year performance of the overall industry. Second quarter backlog increased 3% to a record $5.3 billion versus $5.1 billion in the year-ago quarter, with gains in Asia and North America being partially offset by lower demand in Europe.
Segment income of $127 million was down 4% compared with last year. Higher income and profitability in North America Systems, North America Service, Asia and Global Workplace Solutions was offset by lower results in Europe and residential HVAC. The company said the residential HVAC market was negatively impacted by unusually warm winter weather in North America, resulting in lower demand for furnaces.
Power Solutions sales in the second quarter of 2012 were slightly higher at $1.4 billion as higher volumes in Europe and China and a favorable product mix were offset by lower North American demand. Unit shipments fell 6% in North America with lower aftermarket demand more than offsetting higher sales of original equipment batteries. The company attributed the soft aftermarket demand to unseasonably warm winter temperatures which negatively impacted shipments in the current quarter. Johnson Controls said that customer inventory levels at the end of the quarter were comparable with the levels a year ago.
Power Solutions segment income was $195 million, up 10% versus $178 million in the second quarter of 2011 as a result of a favorable product mix and the benefits of increased vertical integration. The increases were partially offset by costs of temporarily importing batteries to Chinese customers associated with production interruptions at the company's Shanghai battery plant.
 
 
Johnson Controls said that the construction of its recycling facility in South Carolina and its third Chinese battery plant are proceeding on schedule. It also noted that it expects costs related to the Shanghai plant shutdown to be lower in the balance of 2012 as it finalizes a solution to the disruption. Demand continues to grow for the company's higher-margin AGM lead-acid batteries and plans to increase capacity are progressing as expected.
2012 Financial Outlook
Johnson Controls said there are a number of factors that support improved financial results in the second half of 2012 versus the first half of the year. They include:
Power Solutions
 
 
 
Automotive Experience
 
 
 
Building Efficiency
 
 
 
 
Johnson Controls said it was comfortable with the current sell-side consensus for the full fiscal year 2012. The company said that it expects its third quarter earnings to increase approximately 20% vs. the 2011 third quarter, and its fourth quarter earnings to increase approximately 25% from the prior year period.
"Our second half performance forecast is not predicated on improvements in our markets. Our businesses are gaining market share and extending their market-leading positions," Mr. Roell said. "We will continue the aggressive actions to improve efficiencies and to reduce costs, which will accrue increasing benefits throughout the rest of the year and beyond."
 
About Johnson Controls
Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial leader serving customers in more than 150 countries. Our 162,000 employees create quality products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Our commitment to sustainability dates back to our roots in 1885, with the invention of the first electric room thermostat. Through our growth strategies and by increasing market share we are committed to delivering value to shareholders and making our customers successful. In 2011, Corporate Responsibility Magazine recognized Johnson Controls as the #1 company in its annual "100 Best Corporate Citizens" list. For additional information, please visit http://www.johnsoncontrols.com.
Johnson Controls, Inc. has made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to its financial results for fiscal 2012 and beyond that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that are, or could be, deemed "forward-looking" statements and include terms such as "outlook," "expectations," "estimates" or "forecasts." For those statements, the Company cautions that numerous important factors, such as automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, energy and commodity prices, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, currency exchange rates, cancellation of or changes to commercial contracts, changes in the levels or timing of investments in commercial buildings as well as other factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company's most recent Form 10-k filing (filed November 22, 2011) could affect the Company's actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
April 20, 2012
page 5
 
 
April 20, 2012
page 6
 
 
April 20, 2012
page 7
 
 
April 20, 2012
page 8
 
 
April 20, 2012
page 9
 
 
April 20, 2012
page 10
 
1. Business Unit Summary
 
(1)    These second quarter reported numbers include certain non-recurring items. The pre-tax non-recurring items are reported in the segments as follows:
 
(2)    Management evaluates the performance of the segments based primarily on segment income, which represents income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, excluding net financing charges.
Provides facility systems and services including comfort, energy and security management for the non-residential buildings market and provides heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products and services for the residential and non-residential building markets.
Building efficiency
Designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles.
Automotive experience
Services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise.
Power solutions
2. Acquisitions/Divestitures
In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company completed the sale of two of its Building efficiency non-core businesses. The Company received cash of approximately $91 million from the divestitures and recorded net gains of $35 million.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company acquired the C. Rob. Hammerstein Group, a leading global supplier of high-quality metal seat structures, components and mechanisms based in Solingen, Germany. The Company paid approximately $581 million (excluding cash acquired of $60 million). As a result of the acquisition, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 the Company recorded non-recurring acquisition and related costs of $36 million.
April 20, 2012
page 11
 
3. Income Taxes
The Company's effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 is 19.0 percent.
4. Earnings per Share
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators used to calculate basic and diluted earning per share (in millions):
 



