FILE:ED/ED-8K-20060223170638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On February 16, 2006, the Board of Directors of Consolidated Edison Inc. (Con Edison) and the Board of Trustees of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (Con Edison of New York) each elected Kevin Burke as Chairman of the Board, effective February 28, 2006. Mr. Burke will continue as President and Chief Executive Officer of Con Edison and Chief Executive Officer of Con Edison of New York. Mr. Burke will succeed Eugene R. McGrath who will retire, effective February 28, 2006, as Chairman of the Boards of Con Edison and Con Edison of New York. Mr. McGrath will remain a Director of Con Edison and a Trustee of Con Edison of New York.
On February 16, 2006, the Board of Directors of Con Edison and the Board of Trustees of Con Edison of New York each elected Mr. L. Frederick Sutherland as a member of the Board, effective April 1, 2006. Mr. Sutherland is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ARAMARK Corporation.
ITEM 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws; Change in Fiscal Year
On February 16, 2006, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Section 8 of Con Edison of New York's By-Laws to increase the number of Trustees comprising the Board of Trustees to twelve from eleven.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 23, 2006
 


