FILE:ED/ED-8K-20060105132440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
2005 Executive Incentive Plan
 
On December 29, 2005, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (the "Company") entered into its 2005 Executive Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, each year a maximum fund is established by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Trustees, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, based on the salaries of the eligible participants at the end of the prior year. Eligible participants are executives that the Board designates. An award to a participant is payable in a single lump sum as soon as practicable after the award date. A participant may defer a portion of an award into the Company's Deferred Income Plan, as amended. (The Deferred Income Plan was included as Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and Amendment No. 1 to the Deferred Income Plan was included as Exhibit 10.2.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2001.)
 
A copy of the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference, and the foregoing description should be read in conjunction with such exhibit.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: January 5, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the Plan is to provide executives designated by the Company's Board of Trustees as eligible to participate in the Plan with incentives to achieve goals which are important to shareholders and customers of the Company, to supplement the Company's salary and benefit programs so as to provide overall compensation for such executives which is more competitive with corporations with which the Company must compete for the best executive talent, and to assist the Company in attracting and retaining executives who are important to the continued success of the Company.
 
 
The following terms when capitalized herein shall have the meanings set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board, in its discretion, from time to time, may designate and change the designation of the executives or executive position levels eligible to participate in the Plan. To be eligible to receive an award under the Plan for a particular year, an executive must (a) have been employed by the Company during any portion of such year and (b) achieve an eligible position level or be designated by the Board as eligible not later than September 30 of such year.
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, all determinations in connection with the Plan shall be made by the Plan Administrator, whose decisions shall be final and conclusive upon all Participants and any persons asserting any claim derived from a Participant. The Plan Administrator shall make such determinations after receiving the recommendations of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (except as to matters relating to the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer in the Plan). The Plan Administrator shall abstain from any determination under the Plan in which he or she has a personal interest, in which case such determination shall be made by the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The Plan Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan under the direction of the Company's Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
 
 
(a) At the end of each year, the annual rate of salary of each executive eligible to participate in the Plan for such year, as such salary is in effect at the end of such year, shall be multiplied by the Incentive Percentage applicable to such person at such time. The sum of such products for all executives eligible to participate in the Plan for such year is herein called the "Target Incentive Fund" for such year.
 
(b) For purposes of calculating the Target Incentive Fund for any year:
 
(i) In the case of an executive whose employment with the Company has terminated during the year, the annual salary rate of such executive in effect at the time of such termination shall be deemed to be the annual salary rate of such executive at the end of such year.
 
(ii) Deferred compensation, at the annual rate in effect at the end of the year pursuant to an agreement between the Company and an executive, shall be considered part of such executive's annual rate of salary at the end of such year.
 
(iii) An executive's annual rate of salary shall be determined without any deduction for pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions made pursuant to the Consolidated Edison Thrift Savings Plan, the Con Edison Flexible Reimbursement Account Plan, the Con Edison OPTIONS Program for Management Employees, or the Deferred Income Plan.
 
(c) The amount included in the Target Incentive Fund for any year with respect to each executive is called such executive's "Potential Award".
 
 
(a) In January of each year the Board shall determine whether award of the Target Incentive Fund for the preceding year is appropriate or whether and to what extent such Target Incentive Fund shall be reduced, eliminated entirely, or increased. The Board may increase the Target Incentive Fund by an amount not to exceed 50 percent of the Target Incentive Fund. In making such determination, the Board shall consider the Company's performance during the preceding year, taking into account such factors as the Board deems relevant.
 
(b) The Target Incentive Fund for any year in which the Company omits a dividend on its common stock shall be reduced to zero.
 
(c) The Target Incentive Fund for a year, as adjusted pursuant to this Section 4.03, is herein called the "Adjusted Target Incentive Fund".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made therefore by a duly appointed legal representative, direct that any benefit payment due the Participant, to the extent not payable from a grantor trust, be paid on the Participant's behalf to the Participant's spouse, a child, a parent or other blood relative, or to a person with whom the Participant resides or a legal guardian, and any such payment so made shall be a complete discharge of the liabilities of the Company and the Plan therefore.
 
 
, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. has caused this instrument to be executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the 29 day of December, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 


