FILE:ED/ED-8K-20070425171353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2007, the Board of Trustees of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. ("Con Edison of New York ") authorized an amendment to the Con Edison of New York 2005 Executive Incentive Plan (which, as previously amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated December 29, 2006, is referred to herein as the "Plan"). The Plan is described in the combined Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 29, 2006, of Consolidated Edison, Inc. ("Con Edison") and Con Edison of New York, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein (File Nos. 1-14514 and 1-1217).
Pursuant to the April 2007 amendment:
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2007, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Section 8 of Con Edison of New York's By-Laws, effective May 21, 2007, to decrease the number of Trustees comprising the Board of Trustees from twelve to eleven.
 
 
Exhibit 3.1 Con Edison of New York By-Law Amendment.
Exhibit 3.2 By-Laws of Con Edison of New York, effective May 21, 2007.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 25, 2007
 

Exhibit 3.1
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on May 21, 2007, the first sentence of Section 8 of the By-Laws is, and the same hereby, is amended to read as follows:
"Section 8. The affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of a Board consisting of eleven Trustees, who shall be elected annually by the stockholders by ballot and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified."

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack.
SECTION 2. In the event of attack and until the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act plus such number of senior officers of the Company not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack and their successors are duly elected.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period of emergency to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 


