FILE:ED/ED-8K-20080124171831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, Consolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) issued a press release reporting, among other things, its results of operations for 2007. The press release is "furnished" as an exhibit to this report pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
On January 17, 2008, Con Edison's Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (Con Edison of New York) each elected Mr. Michael W. Ranger as a member of the Board effective February 1, 2008. Mr. Ranger is a Senior Managing Director of Diamond Castle Holdings. As provided in Instruction 2 to Item 5.02, the companies will amend this report to disclose the Board committees to which Mr. Ranger is appointed.
 
On January 17, 2008, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Section 8 of Con Edison of New York's By-Laws to increase the number of Trustees comprising the Board of Trustees to thirteen from twelve effective February 1, 2008.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 24, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on February 1, 2008, the first sentence of Section 8 of the By-Laws is, and the same hereby, is amended to read as follows:
"Section 8. The affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of a Board consisting of thirteen Trustees, who shall be elected annually by the stockholders by ballot and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified."

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack.
SECTION 2. In the event of attack and until the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act plus such number of senior officers of the Company not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack and their successors are duly elected.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period of emergency to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEW YORK - Consolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) [NYSE: ED] today reported 2007 earnings of $929 million or $3.49 a share compared with $737 million or $2.96 a share in 2006.
For the fourth quarter of 2007, the company's earnings were $207 million or $0.76 a share compared with $201 million or $0.78 a share for the fourth quarter of 2006.
"Our 2007 financial performance reflects the significant capital investments we have made in our infrastructure to meet the growing energy needs of our customers, the continued economic strength in our local economy, rate agreements then in effect, and the performance from our competitive energy businesses that was better than expected," said Kevin Burke, the company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
The company also today declared a quarterly dividend of 58
 1
/
2
-cents a share on its common stock, payable March 15, 2008 to shareholders of record as of February 13, 2008, an annualized increase of 2 cents over the previous annual dividend of $2.32 a share. "The increase in the dividend, the 34th consecutive annual increase, reflects our commitment to offering a tangible reward to those who have invested in our company for the benefit of our customers, while retaining the balance of our earnings to reinvest in our system," said Robert Hoglund, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
For 2008, the company expects to spend between $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion for capital investments, virtually all of which will be spent at the company's regulated utilities. Common stock issuance of between $225 million and $425 million in addition to stock issuances under the company's dividend reinvestment and employee stock plans is reduced in comparison to prior years due to the anticipated availability of proceeds from the sale of generating projects discussed below. The company also intends to issue long-term debt at its utility subsidiaries of between $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion in addition to debt issuances for maturing securities. After the New York Public Service Commission's ruling in Con Edison of New York's pending electric rate case, which is expected in late March 2008, the company intends to issue its forecast of 2008 earnings.
 
 
The results of operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2007, as compared with the 2006 periods, reflects sales growth, rate plans (which are designed to recover increases in certain operations and maintenance expenses, depreciation and property taxes, and interest charges), the impact of the 2006 Queens power outage, and the impact of weather on fourth quarter revenues. The variations for the year also reflect the impact of storms and milder summer weather. The following table presents the estimated effect on earnings per share and net income for common stock for the fourth quarter and year 2007 compared with the 2006 periods:
 
 
The earnings per share variations shown above include the dilutive effect of a higher weighted average number of common shares outstanding in the three months and year ended December 31, 2007 periods. The weighted average number of common shares was 272 million shares and 266 million shares for the three months and year ended December 31, 2007, compared with 257 million shares and 249 million shares in the 2006 periods, respectively. The dilutive effect on earnings per share for the three months and year ended December 31, 2007 is $0.04 and $0.23, respectively. These amounts per share do not reflect the offsetting benefits of avoided interest expense.
 
 
The changes in the amounts of energy delivered by the company's utility subsidiaries, for actual and as adjusted for variations in weather and billing days in the periods (and for Con Edison of New York gas, net transfers to firm service), for the three months and year ended December 31, 2007, as compared with the 2006 periods were as follows (expressed as a percentage of 2006 amounts):
 
Additional information related to utility sales and revenues is available at www.conedison.com (select "Shareholder Services" and then select "Press Releases").
In December 2007, Con Edison Development agreed to sell 1,706 megawatts of its generation projects. The net income for common stock attributable to these projects for 2007 and prior periods, which is not expected to be material, will be separately reported, if appropriate, as discontinued operations on Con Edison's income statements in its Form 10-K.
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect expectations and not facts. Actual results may differ materially from those expectations because of factors such as those identified in reports the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated Edison, Inc. is one of the nation's largest investor-owned energy companies, with approximately $13 billion in annual revenues and $28 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers through the following subsidiaries: Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., a regulated utility providing electric, gas, and steam service in New York City and Westchester County, New York; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc., a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,350 square mile area in southeastern New York state and adjacent sections of northern New Jersey and northeastern Pennsylvania; Consolidated Edison Solutions, Inc., a retail energy supply and services company; Consolidated Edison Energy, Inc., a wholesale energy supply company; and Consolidated Edison Development, Inc., a company that owns and operates generating plants and participates in other infrastructure projects.
 


