FILE:ED/ED-8K-20080423170437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Stephen R. Volk will be retiring from the Board of Directors of Consolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) and the Board of Trustees of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (Con Edison of New York), effective May 19, 2008, in accordance with the companies' normal retirement policy for directors.
 
On April 17, 2008, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Section 8 of Con Edison of New York's By-Laws to decrease the number of Trustees comprising the Board of Trustees to twelve from thirteen, effective May 19, 2008.
 
O&R Electric Rate Joint Proposal
For information about regulatory matters relating to Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Con Edison, including its November 2007 updated request to the New York State Public Service Commission (PSC) for an electric rate increase of $43.7 million, see Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 of Con Edison's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (which information is incorporated herein by reference).
On April 18, 2008, O&R entered into a Joint Proposal with the PSC staff and other parties with respect to the rates O&R can charge its New York customers for electric service from July 2008 through June 2011. The Joint Proposal, which is subject to approval by the PSC, provides for electric rate increases of $15.6 million, $15.6 million and $5.7 million effective July 1, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, and the collection of an additional $9.9 million during the 12-month period beginning July 1, 2010. The PSC is expected to consider the Joint Proposal in July 2008.
The Joint Proposal reflected the following major items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 23, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on May 19, 2008, the first sentence of Section 8 of the By-Laws is, and the same hereby, is amended to read as follows:
"Section 8. The affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of a Board consisting of twelve Trustees, who shall be elected annually by the stockholders by ballot and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified."

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack.
SECTION 2. In the event of attack and until the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act plus such number of senior officers of the Company not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack and their successors are duly elected.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period of emergency to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 


