FILE:ED/ED-8K-20090220164236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following descriptions of the amendments of the By-laws of Consolidated Edison, Inc. ("Con Edison") and the Emergency By-laws of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. ("Con Edison of New York") and the adoption of Con Edison's Emergency By-laws are qualified in their entirety by reference to the By-laws (which include the Emergency By-laws) of Con Edison and Con Edison of New York, copies of which are included as Exhibits 3.1.3 and 3.2.2 to this report and are incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
Majority Voting
On February 19, 2009, Con Edison's Board of Directors amended Con Edison's By-laws, effective February 19, 2009, to provide that each member of Con Edison's Board of Directors shall be elected (i) in uncontested elections, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election and (ii) in contested elections, by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. Prior to the amendment of Con Edison's By-laws, as provided under New York law when not otherwise required by a company's certificate of incorporation or by-laws, members of Con Edison's Board of Directors were to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election, whether or not the election was contested.
On February 19, 2009, Con Edison's Board of Directors also amended Con Edison's Corporate Governance Guidelines to provide that, in an uncontested election, any director who is not elected by a majority of the votes cast is expected to tender his or her resignation and the Board of Directors is to decide whether or not to accept the tendered resignation and thereafter publicly disclose its decision.
Emergency By-laws
On February 19, 2009, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Con Edison of New York's Emergency By-laws, effective February 19, 2009, to provide that the Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Trustees is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board of Trustees called in the manner provided in Con Edison of New York's By-laws. Prior to the amendment, Con Edison of New York's Emergency By-laws could only be effective if declared effective by the Defense Council of New York (as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act) in the event of attack. The Board of Trustees also amended Con Edison of New York's Emergency By-laws to provide the process (seniority by title and within title, by tenure) by which Con Edison of New York officers would be selected to fill Board vacancies during the period in which the Emergency By-laws are effective.
On February 19, 2009, Con Edison's Board of Directors adopted Emergency By-laws, effective February 19, 2009, substantially the same as Con Edison of New York's amended Emergency By-laws. Prior to the adoption, Con Edison did not have Emergency By-laws.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 20, 2009
 

Exhibit 3.1.1
Majority Voting
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on February 19, 2009, section 8 of the Company's By-laws are, and the same hereby are, amended to read as follows:
"SECTION 8. The affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors, who shall be elected annually by the shareholders by ballot and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. In uncontested elections, each member of the Board of Directors shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. A majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a Director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that Director. In contested elections, each member of the Board of Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in an election. An election shall be considered contested if, as of a date that is five (5) business days in advance of the date the Company files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the number of nominees exceeds the authorized number of Directors to be elected as determined by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation. Vacancies in the Board of Directors may be filled by the Board by the vote of a majority of Directors then in office. Members of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to receive such reasonable fees or other forms of compensation, on a per diem, annual or other basis, as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors or the shareholders in respect of their services as such, including attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees; provided, however that nothing herein contained shall be construed as precluding any Director from serving the Company in any capacity other than as a member of the Board or a committee thereof and receiving compensation for such other services."

Exhibit 3.1.2
Emergency By-laws of CEI
RESOLVED, That the Board hereby adopts the following Emergency By-laws, effective with the opening of business on February 19, 2009:
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack. These Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Directors is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board called in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Company.
SECTION 2. During the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective, the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Directors theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Directors shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Directors available to act, then and in that event, the Board of Directors shall consist of such Directors theretofore elected and available to act, if any, plus such number of officers of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., added to the Board in the order of seniority by title and, within title, seniority by tenure with Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., not theretofore elected as Directors as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as a quorum of the entire Board (including any duly elected successors) becomes available.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.

Exhibit 3.1.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack. These Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Directors is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board called in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Company.
SECTION 2. During the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective, the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Directors theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Directors shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Directors available to act, then and in that event, the Board of Directors shall consist of such Directors theretofore elected and available to act, if any, plus such number of officers of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., added to the Board in the order of seniority by title and, within title, seniority by tenure with Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., not theretofore elected as Directors as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as a quorum of the entire Board (including any duly elected successors) becomes available.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 

Exhibit 3.2.1
Amended and Restated Emergency By-laws of CECONY
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on February 19, 2009, the Company's Emergency By-laws be, and the same hereby are, amended to read as follows:
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack. These Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Trustees is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board called in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Company.
SECTION 2. During the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective, the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event, the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act, if any, plus such number of officers of the Company, added to the Board in the order of seniority by title and, within title, seniority by tenure with the Company, not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as a quorum of the entire Board (including any duly elected successors) becomes available.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.

Exhibit 3.2.2
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack. These Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Trustees is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board called in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Company.
SECTION 2. During the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective, the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act, if any, plus such number of officers of the Company, added to the Board in the order of seniority by title and, within title, seniority by tenure with the Company, not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as a quorum of the entire Board (including any duly elected successors) becomes available.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 


