FILE:ED/ED-8K-20090422165030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Peter W. Likins will be retiring from the Board of Directors of Consolidated Edison, Inc. and the Board of Trustees of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (Con Edison of New York), effective May 18, 2009, in accordance with the companies' normal retirement policy for directors.
 
On April 16, 2009, Con Edison of New York's Board of Trustees amended Section 8 of Con Edison of New York's By-Laws to decrease the number of Trustees comprising the Board of Trustees to twelve from thirteen, effective May 18, 2009.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 3.1
RESOLVED, That, effective with the opening of business on May 18, 2009, the first sentence of Section 8 of the By-Laws be, and the same hereby is, amended to read as follows:
"Section 8. The affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of a Board consisting of twelve Trustees, who shall be elected annually by the stockholders by ballot and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified."

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. These Emergency By-laws may be declared effective by the Defense Council of New York as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Council declares the end of the period of attack. These Emergency By-laws shall also be effective in the event of an attack, major disaster, catastrophe, or national or local emergency, during which a quorum of the entire Board of Trustees is unavailable to act in a meeting of the Board called in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Company.
SECTION 2. During the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective, the affairs of the Company shall be managed by such Trustees theretofore elected as are available to act, and a majority of such Trustees shall constitute a quorum. In the event that there are less than three Trustees available to act, then and in that event the Board of Trustees shall consist of such Trustees theretofore elected and available to act, if any, plus such number of officers of the Company, added to the Board in the order of seniority by title and, within title, seniority by tenure with the Company, not theretofore elected as Trustees as will make a Board of not less than three nor more than five members. The Board as so constituted shall continue until such time as a quorum of the entire Board (including any duly elected successors) becomes available.
SECTION 3. The By-laws of the Company shall remain in effect during the period in which these Emergency By-laws are effective to the extent that said By-laws are not inconsistent with these Emergency By-laws.
 


