FILE:ED/ED-8K-20120504174553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2012, Consolidated Edison, Inc. issued a press release reporting, among other things, its results of operations for the three-months ended March 31, 2012. The press release is "furnished" as an exhibit to this report pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 4, 2012
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
NEW YORKConsolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) [NYSE: ED] today reported first quarter earnings of $277 million or $0.95 a share compared with $311 million or $1.07 a share in 2011. Earnings from ongoing operations, which exclude the net mark-to-market effects of the competitive energy businesses, were $295 million or $1.01 a share compared with $289 million or $0.99 a share in 2011.
"First quarter results were in line with expectations," said Con Edison's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Burke. "Our field operations benefited from a milder than normal winter, while providing the reliability our customers expect and deserve. We have continued to promote energy efficiency programs and oil-to-gas conversions, both of which will serve to save customers money while improving the area's air quality and environment."
The following table is a reconciliation of Con Edison's reported earnings per share to earnings per share from ongoing operations and reported net income to earnings from ongoing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.
 
For the year 2012, the company confirms its previous forecast of earnings per share from ongoing operations in the range of $3.65 to $3.85 a share. Earnings per share from ongoing operations exclude the net mark-to-market effects of the competitive energy businesses.
 
 
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared with the 2011 period, reflect changes in the rate plans of Con Edison's utility subsidiaries and the effects of the milder winter weather on steam revenues. The rate plans provide for additional revenues to cover expected increases in certain operations and maintenance expenses, and depreciation and property taxes. The results of operations include the operating results of the competitive energy businesses, including net mark-to-market effects.
Operations and maintenance expenses were higher due to pensions, other postretirement benefits and healthcare costs, offset in part by lower operating costs attributable to the milder winter weather in the 2012 period. Depreciation was higher in the 2012 period reflecting primarily the impact from higher utility plant balances.
The following table presents the estimated effect on earnings per share and net income for common stock for the 2012 period compared with the 2011 period, resulting from these and other major factors:
 
 
The weighted average number of common shares was 293 million shares and 292 million shares for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
 
The changes in the energy delivered by the company's utility subsidiaries, both for actual amounts and as adjusted primarily for variations in weather and billing days, for the period ended March 31, 2012, as compared with the 2011 period were as follows (expressed as a percentage of 2011 amounts):
 
Refer to the company's First Quarter Form 10-Q, which is being filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, for the consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and the consolidated income statements for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. Additional information related to utility sales and revenues is available at (select "Shareholder Services" and then select "Press Releases").
www.conedison.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect expectations and not facts. Actual results may differ materially from those expectations because of factors such as those identified in reports the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This press release also contains a financial measure, earnings from ongoing operations. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered as an alternative to net income, which is an indicator of operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to facilitate the analysis of the company's ongoing performance as compared to its internal budgets and previously reported financial results. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is also useful and meaningful to investors.
Consolidated Edison, Inc. is one of the nation's largest investor-owned energy companies, with approximately $13 billion in annual revenues and $40 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers through the following subsidiaries: Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., a regulated utility providing electric, gas, and steam service in New York City and Westchester County, New York; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc., a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,350 square mile area in southeastern New York state and adjacent sections of northern New Jersey and northeastern Pennsylvania; Consolidated Edison Solutions, Inc., a retail energy supply and services company; Consolidated Edison Energy, Inc., a wholesale energy supply company; and Consolidated Edison Development, Inc., a company that participates in infrastructure projects.


