FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20051223125537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01.      Entry into a Material  Definitive Agreement
 
On December 20, 2005, Tyco reached a definitive agreement to sell its Plastics, Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products businesses to an affiliate of private investment firm Apollo Management, L.P. for $975 million in cash.  The net purchase price is subject to certain working capital and other operational adjustments. The transaction is also subject to regulatory approval, normal closing conditions and is expected to close during the first quarter of calendar year 2006.
               
 
The Company previously reported in its 2005 annual report on Form 10-K that it was continually assessing the recoverability of the Plastics and Adhesives segment's carrying value and had performed such assessment at September 30, 2005, based on estimated fair values at that date.  Further, the Company disclosed that it may incur an additional impairment based on the final sale price of the Plastics, Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products businesses. Based on management's continued assessment considering the cash price and potential working capital and other adjustments, Tyco expects to incur a pre-tax impairment and other charges in the range of $250-300 million in connection with the transaction.
               
 
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
               
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)           Exhibits
 
 
               
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda 
Dec. 20, 2005  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today announced that it has reached a definitive agreement to sell its Plastics, Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products businesses to an affiliate of private investment firm Apollo Management, L.P.  for $975 million in cash.  The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close during the first quarter of calendar year 2006.
 
Tyco's A&E Products Group, a leading global producer of garment hangers, is not included in this agreement and is expected to be sold separately.
 
Tyco announced earlier this year its intent to sell its Plastics & Adhesives businesses, which no longer fit within the company's portfolio.  In anticipation of the sale and beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Plastics & Adhesives segment was classified as a discontinued operation and results of the segment were reported accordingly.  As previously reported in Tyco's 2005 annual report on form 10-K, the company expects to incur an additional impairment charge related to this transaction in the current quarter.  The segment's 2005 net revenue, excluding the A&E Products Group, was $1.7 billion.
 
The Plastics, Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products businesses that are included in this transaction encompass approximately 7,100 employees at 43 manufacturing sites in five countries  primarily across North America, as well as at locations in Belgium, Korea and India.  The business is one of the top U.S. producers of
trash bags, stretch film and plastic sheeting, as well as a leading global producer of duct tape.  Major markets served include the retail, industrial, automotive, agricultural, home construction, and food packaging sectors.  Key brands include Ruffies
and Rhino-X
trash bags;
Film-Gard
plastic sheeting; Nashua
tapes; Polyken
pipeline coatings; Scrollware
plastic dinnerware; Thermo-Ply
and Energy-Brace
wall sheathing; as well as R-Wrap
and Barricade
housewraps.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in five business segments: Fire & Security, Electronics, Healthcare, Engineered Products & Services, and Plastics & Adhesives.  With 2005 revenue of $40 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at
www.tyco.com.


