FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20060113071308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
        On January 13, 2006, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors has approved a plan to separate the Company into three separate, publicly traded companies  Tyco Healthcare, Tyco Electronics and a combination of Tyco Fire & Security and Engineered Products and Services (the "Proposed Separation"). In connection with the Proposed Separation, the following actions were taken:
Management Appointments and Related Compensatory Matters
        In connection with the management teams for the three companies, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, approved the following:
 - 
Thomas Lynch was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Electronics and his base salary was increased 6% effective January 23, 2006;
 - 
Juergen Gromer's title was changed to President and Vice Chairman, Electronics and he will be paid a cash retention bonus equal to two times his salary and target bonus following his continued employment for two years following completion of the Proposed Separation;
 - 
Naren Gursahaney was appointed President, Engineered Products and Services and designated an officer subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), his bonus target was changed to 100% of his base salary and he was awarded 15,000 stock options, subject to the terms of the Tyco International Ltd. 2004 Stock and Incentive Plan, that vest in equal annual installments over a period of three years; and
 - 
Richard Meelia's title was changed to Chief Executive Officer, Healthcare.
        In addition, the Board of Directors received Edward Breen's waiver of the "good reason" clause under his employment contract, as such clause relates to the Proposed Separation. A copy of the waiver is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Treatment of Restricted Stock and Other Equity Awards
        The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its Compensation and Human Resources Committee, has provided that upon completion of the Proposed Separation:
 - 
restricted stock awards will be treated equivalently to common stock, so that employees with restricted stock will own stock in three separate companies, and that for each employee the shares of restricted stock of the companies that do not employ that employee will vest fifty percent (50%) upon completion of the Proposed Separation and fifty percent (50%) on the six-month anniversary of completion of the Proposed Separation, and
 - 
employee stock options, performance units, restricted stock units and deferred unit awards outstanding as of the completion of the Proposed Separation (collectively referred to as "equity awards"):
 - 
for employees of the Tyco International corporate offices will be converted at equivalent value into equity awards for three separate, publicly traded companies, and
 - 
for all other employees will be converted at equivalent value into equity awards for the company that employs that employee upon completion of the Proposed Separation.
2006 Bonuses and Severance
        The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, approved with respect to the persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act listed below, and the Compensation and Human Resources Committee approved with respect to all other
employees of the Tyco International corporate offices, that fiscal year 2006 annual performance bonus awards will be paid at not less than target, including for the following Section 16 officers: Edward C. Arditte, Edward D. Breen, Christopher J. Coughlin, Carol Anthony Davidson, Dana S. Deasy, John Evard, Martina Hund-Mejean, William B. Lytton, Eric M. Pillmore, Laurie A. Siegel and Charles H. Young.
        The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, approved with respect to the persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act listed below, and the Compensation and Human Resources Committee approved with respect to all other employees, that in the event an employee (including the following Section 16 officers: Edward C. Arditte, Edward D. Breen, Christopher J. Coughlin, Carol Anthony Davidson, Dana S. Deasy, John Evard, Naren Gursahaney, Martina Hund-Mejean, William B. Lytton, Eric M. Pillmore, David Robinson, Laurie A. Siegel and Charles H. Young) is terminated with severance in conjunction with the Proposed Separation:
 - 
any unvested stock option, restricted share and restricted stock unit awards granted to such employee during fiscal years 2004 and 2005 will fully vest upon termination of employment;
 - 
the expiration of the exercise period for any stock options granted to such employee during fiscal years 2004 and 2005 will be extended to December 31st of the year that each option would otherwise expire as a result of each such employee's termination of employment; and
 - 
any unvested company match under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and the Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan for such employee would fully vest upon termination of employment.
Employee Retention Plan
        In order to encourage the retention of key employees through the completion of the Proposed Separation, the Company's Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its Compensation and Human Resources Committee, approved the Tyco International (US) Inc. Employee Retention Plan, pursuant to which selected key employees may receive a cash retention payment, of which fifty percent (50%) will be paid within 30 days of completion of the Proposed Separation and fifty percent (50%) will be paid within 30 days of the six-month anniversary of completion of the Proposed Separation. If the employee is terminated in circumstances entitling the employee to severance benefits, any unpaid portion of the retention payment will be paid within 30 days of the later of the date of termination of employment and the completion of the Proposed Separation.
        A participant's aggregate retention payment will be expressed as a percentage of base salary ranging from 25% to 200%. In addition, the amount of the total retention payment may be increased or decreased by up to 25%. Participation in the retention program and the level of payment will be determined by (a) in the case of individuals subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Board of Directors and (b) in all other cases, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President-Human Resources of Tyco International (US) Inc., based on a determination of their criticality to transaction execution and/or ongoing operations and stewardship functions or such other criteria as may be established.
        This description of the retention program is qualified in its entirety by the Tyco International (US) Inc. Employee Retention Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its Compensation and Human Resource Committee, approved the participation of Edward C. Arditte, Carol Anthony Davidson, John Evard and Martina Hund-Mejean in the employee retention plan at 200% of their respective base salary.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        On January 13, 2006, the Company issued a press release updating expected results for the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
        On January 13, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has approved a plan to separate the Company into three separate, publicly traded companies  Tyco Healthcare, Tyco Electronics and a combination of Tyco Fire & Security and Engineered Products and Services. In addition, the Company updated its outlook for the Company's full year fiscal 2006.
        A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 13, 2006
QuickLinks
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
January 12, 2006
John A. Krol Lead Director Tyco International Ltd. 90 Pitts Bay Road Pembroke, HM 08 Bermuda
Employment Agreement (the "Employment Agreement") dated as of July 25, 2002 by and between Edward D. Breen and Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company")
Dear Jack:
        I am writing to waive and do hereby waive any and all claims that (1) any change in my position, authority, duties or responsibilities contemplated by and directly resulting form the consummation of the transactions described in the Form 8-K to be filed by the Company on January 13, 2006 constitutes "Good Reason" under Section 7(e)(i) of the Employment Agreement (including, for example, any claim that the consummation of such transactions results in a significant diminution in my position, authority, duties or responsibilities because the Company has been reduced in size) or (2) a transfer of my employment from the Company to an affiliate of the Company in connection with such transactions constitutes a termination of my employment for purposes of the Employment Agreement, provided that (i) such affiliate expressly assumes and agrees to perform all of the Company's obligations under the Employment Agreement and (ii) I will not be required to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 60 miles form my current principal place of employment with the Company. My waiver will not act as a bar for a claim that I may have Good Reason on any other grounds.
        If this letter accurately sets forth our agreement on the subject matter hereof, please so indicate by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to me.
Dated this 12 day of January, 2006.
th

Exhibit 10.2
1.
Purpose.
    The Plan has been established for the purposes of providing retention incentives for selected key employees of the Company and its Affiliates in connection with the proposed transactions pursuant to which the Company will be separated into three publicly traded companies, and to encourage them to remain in the employ of the Company, to use their best efforts to ensure the sustained performance results of the Company and to ensure a successful completion of the proposed transactions.
2.
Definitions.
    For purposes of the Plan:
(a)
"Affiliate" shall mean (i) a subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) as defined by section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (as amended), (ii) any employer that is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to section 414 of the Code and (iii) following the Closing Date, any company the stock of which is distributed by the Company on the Closing Date and any subsidiary of any such company.
(b)
"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company, or a committee thereof specifically designated for purposes of making determinations hereunder.
(c)
"Closing Date" shall mean the date on which there occurs the consummation of the transactions described in the Form 8-K filed by the Company on January 13, 2006.
(d)
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(e)
"Committee" shall mean the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board.
(f)
"Company" shall mean Tyco International Ltd., a Bermuda corporation, or any successor thereto.
(g)
"Participant" shall mean those individuals selected by the Plan Manager to participate in the Plan, based on each such individual's criticality to transaction execution and/or ongoing operations and stewardship functions or such other criteria as the Plan Manager shall determine. At the time each Participant is designated to participate in the Plan, such Participant shall be designated as either a Tier 1A Participant, a Tier 1 Participant, a Tier 2 Participant, a Tier 3 Participant, or a Tier 4 Participant.
(h)
"Plan" shall mean the Tyco International (US) Inc. Employee Retention Plan, as set forth herein and as may be amended from time to time.
(i)
"Plan Manager" shall mean (i) with respect to individuals who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with respect to securities of the Company, the Board and (ii) with respect to all other individuals, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President-Human Resources, of Tyco International (US) Inc.
(j)
"Retention Agreement" shall mean the agreement evidencing a Participant's participation herein.
(k)
"Retention Payment" shall mean (i) with respect to a Tier 1A Participant, a percentage of such participant's base salary in excess of 100% as designated by the Plan Manager, not to exceed 200%, (ii) with respect to a Tier 1 Participant, 100% of such participant's base salary, (iii) with respect to a Tier 2 Participant, 75% of such participant's base salary, (iv) with respect to a Tier 3 Participant, 50% of such participant's base salary, and (v) with respect to a Tier 4 Participant, 25% of such participant's base salary; provided that the Plan Manager may, in its sole discretion, either increase or decrease the amount of any Retention Payment by up to 25%. For purposes of the foregoing, "base salary" shall mean the Participant's annual rate of base salary as in effect on the date the Participant enters into the Retention Agreement.
(l)
"Retention Payment Date" shall mean either the First Payment Date or the Second Payment Date, as applicable. "First Payment Date" shall mean the Closing Date and the "Second Payment Date" shall mean the date which is the six-month anniversary of the Closing Date.
(m)
"Severance Plan" shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the severance plan of the Company or its Affiliates in which the Participant is eligible to participate at the time of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company or its Affiliates.
3.
Effective Date; Termination Date.
    The Plan shall be effective as of January 13, 2006. The Plan shall continue until terminated pursuant to Section 7 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan shall have no force and effect, and no Retention Payments shall be payable in the event that the Closing Date does not occur.
4.
Plan Manager Authority.
    All determinations required to be made hereunder, including but not limited to, determining which key employees shall be eligible to participate, the amount of their respective Retention Payments, the terms and conditions under which Retention Payments shall be earned and whether such terms and conditions have been satisfied shall be made by the Plan Manager in its sole discretion. All decisions, actions and interpretations of the Plan Manager shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons, including the Participants. As a condition of participating in the Plan, the Participant acknowledges that all decisions and determinations of the Plan Manager shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan on his or her behalf.
5.
Retention Payments.
(a)
Retention Agreements.
    The Company shall enter into a Retention Agreement with each Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of such Participant's participation in the Plan, including the amount of the Retention Payment, which may be expressed as a flat amount or a percentage of base salary, and in either United States dollars or any other applicable currency. The Retention Agreement shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Plan Manager shall determine.
(b)
Payment.
    Each Participant shall be paid his or her Retention Payment as follows: 50% of the Retention Payment no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the First Payment Date and 50% of the Retention Payment no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the Second Payment Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicable portion of the Retention Payment shall not be paid to any Participant who is not employed in good standing (as determined by the Plan Manager in its sole discretion) by the Company or one of its Affiliates on the applicable Retention Payment Date;
provided
,
however
, that if a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates is terminated by the Company or one of its Affiliates in circumstances entitling such participant to severance benefits under the Severance Plan, such Participant shall be entitled to receive the full amount of any unpaid Retention Payment thirty (30) calendar days following the later of the effective date of such termination of employment or the First Payment Date.
6.
Withholding.
    The Company shall be entitled to withhold from amounts to be paid to any Participant hereunder any federal, state or local withholding or other taxes which the Company is required to withhold.
7.
Amendment, Termination and Duration.
    Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7, the Board shall have the right, at any time and from time to time, to suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, and the Board and the Plan Manager (within the scope of the Company's Delegations of Authority) shall each have the right, at any time and from time to time, to amend the Plan, for any reason or without reason, and without either the consent of or the prior notification to any Participant, by a formal written action. No such amendment, suspension or termination shall give
the Company the right to recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment or, subject to Section 8(n) hereof, adversely affect the rights of any Participant under any Retention Agreement. Unless terminated sooner by the Board, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect until termination of the Plan pursuant to this Section 7.
8.
Miscellaneous.
(a)
Nonalienation of Benefits.
    None of the payments, benefits or rights of any Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor of any Participant, and, in particular, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment, garnishment (if permitted under applicable law), trustee's process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any creditor of such Participant. No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate, commute, plead, encumber or assign any of the benefits or payments that he may expect to receive, contingently or otherwise, under this Plan, except that each Participant shall be entitled to designate a beneficiary to whom Retention Payments shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death.
(b)
Notices.
    All notices and other communications required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight express courier service. In the case of the Participant, mailed notices shall be addressed to him or her at the home address which he or she most recently communicated to the Company in writing. In the case of the Company, mailed notices shall be addressed to Corporate Human Resources, 9 Roszel Road (1 Floor), Princeton, N.J. 08540.
st
(c)
Successors.
    Any successor to the Company shall assume the obligations under this Plan and expressly agree to perform the obligations under this Plan.
(d)
Effect on Other Benefits.
    Amounts payable under the Plan shall not be treated as compensation for purposes of computing or determining any benefit under any pension, savings, severance, redundancy, bonus/incentive, insurance, or other employee compensation or benefit plan, payment or obligation of the Company or any Affiliate. A Participant's Retention Payment shall be reduced by any other retention or similar payments from the Company or an Affiliate received or to be received by the Participant, but shall not be offset by incentive, severance or other similar benefits received or to be received by the Participant.
(e)
No Contract of Employment.
    Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor entering into any Retention Agreement, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Participant or any person whosoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
(f)
Severability of Provisions.
    If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
(g)
Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives.
    This Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties, including each Participant, present and future.
(h)
Headings and Captions.
    The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
(i)
Gender and Number.
    Where the context admits, words in any gender shall include any other gender, and, except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the singular shall include the plural, and vice-versa.
(j)
Unfunded Plan.
    The Plan shall not be funded. No Participant shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of the Company that may be applied by the Company to the payment of Retention Payments. Payments of Retention Payments to Participants shall be made from the general assets of the Company, in such manner as the Plan Manager shall determine.
(k)
Payments to Incompetent Persons.
    Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, and all other parties with respect thereto.
(l)
Lost Payees.
    A benefit shall be deemed forfeited if the Company is unable to locate a Participant to whom a Retention Payment is due. Such Retention Payment shall be reinstated if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Retention Payment while this Plan is in operation.
(m)
Controlling Law.
    This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of New York to the extent not superseded by Federal law.
(n)
Code Section 409A.
    The Plan and the Retention Agreements are not intended to constitute a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, but rather are intended to be exempt from the application of Code Section 409A. To the extent that the Plan and/or Retention Agreements are nevertheless deemed to be subject to Code Section 409A, the Plan and Retention Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the effective date of the Plan. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Retention Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the Plan Manager determines that any Retention Payment may be or become subject to Code Section 409A, the Company may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the affected Retention Agreement (without Participant consent) or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Plan Manager determines are necessary or appropriate to (i) exempt the Plan and any Retention Agreement from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Retention Payment, or (ii) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
        PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Jan. 13, 2006  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE:TYC; BSX:TYC) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a plan to separate the company's current portfolio of diverse businesses into three separate, publicly traded companies  Tyco Healthcare, one of the world's leading diversified healthcare companies; Tyco Electronics, the world's largest passive electronic components manufacturer, and the combination of Tyco Fire & Security and Engineered Products & Services (TFS/TEPS), a global business with leading positions in residential and commercial security, fire protection and industrial products and services.
        The company intends to accomplish the separation through tax-free stock dividends to Tyco shareholders, after which they will own 100% of the equity in three publicly traded companies. Each company will have its own independent Board of Directors and strong corporate governance standards. Tyco expects to complete the transactions during the first quarter of calendar 2007.
        According to Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen, "In the past several years, Tyco has come a long way. Our balance sheet and cash flows are strong and many legacy financial and legal issues have been resolved. We are fortunate to have a great mix of businesses with market-leading positions. After a thorough review of strategic options with our Board of Directors, we have determined that separating into three independent companies is the best approach to enable these businesses to achieve their full potential. Healthcare, Electronics and TFS/TEPS will be able to move faster and more aggressively  and ultimately create more value for our shareholders  by pursuing their own growth strategies as independent companies."
        Tyco's Board of Directors and senior leadership have evaluated a broad range of strategic alternatives, including continuation of Tyco's current operating strategy, sales of select businesses, and separation of only one of the businesses. The company and Board concluded that separating into three businesses is the best way to position these market-leading companies for sustained growth and value creation.
Three Leading Global Companies
TYCO HEALTHCARE
        With 2005 revenue of nearly $10 billion, Tyco Healthcare is one of the foremost global providers of healthcare products and services. The company is well-positioned to capitalize on the attractive dynamics of the healthcare industry and to realize more robust growth. Its product portfolio includes advanced surgical instruments and supplies, respiratory care products, contrast media and diagnostic imaging products, needles and syringes, vascular therapies, sutures and wound care products, and generic pharmaceuticals. Healthcare has more than 40,000 employees.
        This proposed separation will create a leading stand-alone healthcare company, which is expected to benefit from a focused and independent healthcare culture to help attract top industry talent and strategic partners, as well as increasing access to emerging healthcare-related technologies. This business will continue to be led by current Tyco Healthcare President Rich Meelia, who will become the company's Chief Executive Officer. Chief Operating Officer Kevin Gould and Chief Financial Officer Chuck Dockendorff will also continue in their current leadership positions with the company.
TYCO ELECTRONICS
        Tyco Electronics is one of the world's largest suppliers of electronic components, including connectors, switches, relays, circuit protection devices, touch screens, magnetics, resistors, wire and cable, as well as fiber-optic and wireless components and systems. Electronics has 88,000 employees worldwide.
        As a $12 billion stand-alone enterprise, Tyco Electronics will be positioned to move quickly and strategically as competition requires, and will be better able to participate in ongoing electronics industry consolidation. The company's Chief Executive Officer will be Tom Lynch  current President of Tyco's Engineered Products & Services segment  who brings broad experience in the communications and electronics industries. Dr. Juergen Gromer, who has led Tyco Electronics since 1999, will continue as President, and will also assume additional responsibilities as Vice Chairman. Jacki Heisse will continue to serve as the company's Chief Financial Officer.
TYCO FIRE & SECURITY/ENGINEERED PRODUCTS & SERVICES
        TFS/TEPS will be led by Tyco International Chairman and CEO Ed Breen as well as Tyco International's Chief Financial Officer, Chris Coughlin. TFS/TEPS is an $18 billion world leader in electronic security solutions for residential, business, and governmental customers, fire protection and sprinkler systems, and industrial valves and controls. With more than 118,000 employees, TFS/TEPS has a large, stable recurring revenue base and generates strong cash flow. Dave Robinson will continue to serve as President of Tyco Fire & Security. Naren Gursahaney will succeed Tom Lynch as President of Engineered Products & Services.
        Breen added, "We believe this separation is a logical next step in Tyco's evolution and we are absolutely convinced that this is the right decision for the long-term success of our businesses, employees and shareholders."
Transaction Details
        It is anticipated that all three companies will be capitalized to provide financial flexibility to take advantage of future growth opportunities. They are expected to have financial policies, balance sheets and credit metrics that are commensurate with solid investment grade credit ratings. Tyco will continue to follow financial policies that are consistent with its current credit ratings until the planned transactions take place. The company's existing debt is expected to be allocated among the three companies or refinanced. Any existing or potential liabilities that cannot be associated with a particular
entity will be allocated appropriately to each of the businesses, and a sharing arrangement among the three companies will be established.
        The three entities together are initially expected to pay a dividend that is equal in sum to the current Tyco dividend. Until the planned transactions are completed, Tyco expects to pay its current quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share.
        One-time transaction costs are expected to total approximately $1.0 billion  largely for tax and debt refinancing. Under the proposed transaction structure, each of the companies is expected to remain incorporated in Bermuda.
        Consummation of the proposed separations is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the Tyco International Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion of counsel, and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The separations are also subject to the completion of any necessary refinancings. Approval by Tyco International shareholders is not required.
First Quarter and Full-Year 2006 Update
        Tyco expects first quarter 2006 earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations  excluding special items  to be about $0.38 per share compared to its previous guidance of $0.40 to $0.42 per share. Organic growth will be approximately 4 percent for the quarter, with 7 to 8 percent organic growth in Electronics and Engineered Products & Services partially offset by flat organic growth in Fire & Security and Healthcare.
        In Fire & Security, revenue and margins were adversely impacted by weakness in the commercial security and Worldwide Fire Services businesses, partially offset by improved performance in residential security. In Healthcare, strong growth in revenue and operating profit in International was offset by revenue and profit shortfalls in the Imaging and Respiratory businesses, primarily due to the impact of product recalls and regulatory compliance issues, as well as capacity limitations in the Pharmaceuticals business. The issues in Imaging and Respiratory have been identified and are in the process of being resolved. The company expects to have additional pharmaceutical capacity coming on-line in the second quarter.
        For the full year 2006, the company is now expecting EPS from continuing operations excluding special items to be in the range of $1.85 to $1.92 per share. The change from the company's previous guidance is mostly due to the items in Fire & Security and Healthcare noted above. The estimated transaction costs related to the separations will be treated as special items and are therefore excluded from this guidance. EPS from continuing operations excluding special items and organic revenue growth are non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.
        As previously announced, the company will release its full first quarter results on Feb. 2, 2006.
About Tyco
        Tyco is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in five business segments: Fire & Security, Electronics, Healthcare, Engineered Products & Services, and Plastics & Adhesives. With 2005 revenue of $40 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
        The company will hold a conference call for investors today beginning at 10:00 a.m. ET. The call can be accessed in two ways:
 - 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com. A replay of the call will be available through Tues., Jan. 31, 2006 at the same website.
 - 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (877) 531-2987. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (612) 332-0819.
        An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 3:15 p.m. ET on Fri., Jan. 13, 2006 and ending at 11:59 p.m. ET on Fri., Jan. 20, 2006. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 475-6701. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (320) 365-3844. The replay access code for all callers is 814596.
NON-GAAP MEASURES
        
"EPS from continuing operations excluding special items" and "organic growth" are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
        
The company has forecast its EPS from continuing operations results excluding special items related to divestitures, early retirement of debt, transaction costs related to the separations, and other income or charges that may mask the underlying results and trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results. Because the company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be taken, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
        
"Organic revenue growth" is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business. The difference between reported net revenue growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications and changes to the fiscal year).
        
Organic revenue growth is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity, or revenue reclassification. It is also a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue. This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue growth in combination with the GAAP numbers.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
        
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing the following subjects: future financial condition and operating results. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking
statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2005.
QuickLinks
TYCO ANNOUNCES INTENT TO SEPARATE INTO THREE PUBLICLY TRADED COMPANIES


