FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20060123172603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01.      Entry into a Material  Definitive Agreement
 
.
On January 17, 2006, Tyco International Ltd, and its subsidiaries Tyco International (US) Inc., Tyco Healthcare Group LP, Mallinckrodt, Inc., and Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. (collectively "Nellcor") entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release of Claims with Masimo Corporation and Masimo Laboratories, Inc. (the "Settlement") related to a consolidated patent infringement action filed on June 19, 2000 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. .   Under the terms of the settlement, Tyco on behalf of Nellcor paid Masimo a total of $330.48 million on January 19, 2006, which represents:  (1) $265 million in damages in the patent case for sales through January 31, 2006 (after which the infringing products will no longer be sold) and (2) $65 million as an advance royalty for oximetry sales including Nellcor's new 06 technology products ("06 Products") from February 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006.  Under the terms of the settlement, Nellcor receives from Masimo a covenant not to sue on the Nellcor 06 Products as well as a termination of all pending patent litigation with Masimo.   Beginning January 1, 2007, the royalty rate to be paid by Nellcor to Masimo will decrease for the remainder of the agreement.  In March 2011, Nellcor has the option to terminate Masimo's covenant not to sue and the obligation to pay future royalties on Nellcor's current products as well as as any next-generation products
Please see page 28 of the Tyco International Ltd 2005 Form 10-K for a background description of the patent litigation
 
In addition, Nellcor shall discontinue making, offering to sell, selling or shipping any products that the court found infringed on the patents held by Masimo but will continue to provide service and sensors for the previously sold products.   The Settlement does not resolve the Masimo antitrust lawsuit or the related consumer antitrust class lawsuits.
 
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)           Exhibits
 
 
               
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PLEASANTON, Calif.  Jan. 23, 2006  Nellcor, a division of Tyco Healthcare, today announced a settlement of all existing patent litigation with Masimo Corporation.  Under the terms of the settlement, all pending patent litigation will be dismissed, and Nellcor has paid Masimo $265 million for damages through Jan. 31, 2006.  In addition, Nellcor made an advance royalty payment of $65 million related to sales of Nellcor's new products during the remainder of calendar 2006.  After Jan. 31, 2006, Nellcor will no longer ship its current 05 pulse oximetry platform, but it will continue to provide service and sensors for previously sold products.  Masimo has granted Nellcor the right to sell Nellcor's new line of pulse oximetry products in exchange for an ongoing royalty.  This agreement does not change Tyco's previous guidance for earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations excluding special items of $1.85 to $1.92 per share for fiscal 2006.
 
A part of Tyco Healthcare's Mallinckrodt business, Nellcor is the world's foremost supplier of pulse oximetry and airway management products.  Tyco International Ltd. is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in five business segments: Fire & Security, Electronics, Healthcare, Engineered Products & Services, and Plastics & Adhesives.  With 2004 revenue of $40 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at .
www.tyco.com
"EPS from continuing operations excluding special items" is a non-GAAP measure and should not be considered a replacement for GAAP results. The company has forecast its EPS from continuing operations results excluding special items related to divestitures, early retirement of debt, and other income or charges that may mask the underlying results and trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results. Because the company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be taken, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing the following subjects: future financial condition and operating results. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2005.
 
 
 


