FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20061215162714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On December 11, 2006, Tyco International Ltd issued press releases announcing the executive teams that will lead Tyco Healthcare and Tyco Electronics as they prepare to become separate, independent traded companies. A copy of each press release is furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)           Exhibits
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Dec. 11, 2006  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today announced the executive team that will lead Tyco Healthcare as it prepares to become a separate, independently traded company.
Tyco Healthcare, one of Tyco International's four major business segments, is a leading global manufacturer, distributor and servicer of medical devices, with sales of $9.6 billion in fiscal 2006.  Its product portfolio includes disposable medical supplies, monitoring equipment, medical instruments and bulk analgesic pharmaceuticals, sold under well-known brand names such as Auto Suture, Kendall, Mallinckrodt, Nellcor, Puritan Bennett, Syneture, United States Surgical, Valleylab and others.  Tyco Healthcare employs more than 40,000 people worldwide.
, Tyco Healthcare's president and chief executive officer (CEO), will continue in this position as head of the new senior management team.  Meelia, 57, has directed Tyco International's acquisition, integration and product development efforts in the healthcare field for more than a decade, growing this segment to the diverse global business it is today.  Meelia joined Kendall Healthcare Products Company as group president in 1991. Tyco International entered the healthcare field with the acquisition of Kendall in 1994, and Meelia was appointed president of Tyco Healthcare the following year.  Before joining Kendall/Tyco Healthcare, he was president of Infusaid, Inc., a division of Pfizer Hospital Products Group that manufactures and markets implantable infusion pumps and ports.  Before that, he held various sales and marketing positions with the Pharmaseal and McGaw divisions of the American Hospital Supply Corporation.  Meelia received a bachelor's degree from Saint Anselm College (N.H.) and a master's degree in business administration from Boston College (Mass.)
Richard J. Meelia
 
Following is brief biographical information about the other members of Tyco Healthcare's senior management team.
Operating Leadership:
, president of the medical devices business, is responsible for managing the advanced medical, respiratory, surgical and Valleylab global business units that make up Tyco Healthcare's medical devices business.  Hejoined Tyco Healthcare in 1995 and held several positions of increasing responsibility, including vice president of European manufacturing and vice president of global manufacturing.  Almeida, 44, left Tyco Healthcare in 2003 for Greatbatch Technologies, Inc. before returning to Tyco Healthcare in 2004 as president of its international business.  Prior to joining Tyco Healthcare, he worked at Acufex Microsurgical, Johnson & Johnson and Anderson Consulting.  Almeida received a bachelor's degree from the Maua Institute of Technology in So Paulo, Brazil.
Jos (Joe) E. Almeida
, president of the medical supplies business, is responsible for directing strategic and day-to-day operations of the Ludlow, Curity and OEM business units.  Clemmer, 42, also directs new product development efforts and ongoing operational excellence/Six Sigma projects associated with the Kendall businesses.  He joined Tyco Healthcare as part of the Sage product acquisition in 1999 and subsequently held senior roles in marketing and general management at Kendall.  Clemmer began his career in the medical device industry in 1989 and holds a bachelor's degree from North Adams State College (Mass.).
James C. Clemmer
, president of Tyco Healthcare's retail business, is responsible for managing the development, manufacturing and marketing of a wide variety of "retail brand" (also known as "private label") products for retail markets in the U.S., Canada and Mexico  supplying virtually every retail mass merchandiser, food store, dollar store and drug store.  Tyco Healthcare's retail business also is recognized in North America as the industry leader for private label adult care and infant care products.  Strohmeier, 46, who became president of the retail business in 1998, has held a variety of senior positions during his 14 years at Tyco Healthcare.  He has a bachelor's degree from East Stroudsburg University (Pa.).
Douglas E. Strohmeier
Functional Leadership:
, chief financial officer (CFO) and executive vice president of finance, is responsible for the financial management of Tyco Healthcare. After joining Kendall in 1989 as controller, he was appointed vice president and controller in 1994 and, the following year, was named Tyco Healthcare's CFO.  Before joining Kendall/Tyco Healthcare, Dockendorff, 52, was vice president and CFO of Epsco, Inc. and CFO of Infrared Industries  both public companies in the defense electronics industry.  Prior to that, he worked at Ernst & Young.  A Certified Public Accountant, Dockendorff received a bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts and a master's degree in finance from Bentley College (Mass.).
Charles J. Dockendorff
 
 
2
, senior vice president of corporate communications, is responsible for Tyco Healthcare's global internal and external communications strategies, including corporate marketing, public relations, media relations, financial communications, crisis communications, issues management, philanthropy and Internet/Intranet presence.  He also is responsible for establishing policy, strategy and guidelines for public affairs.  Prior to joining Tyco Healthcare in July 2006, Kraus, 45, was vice president of corporate communications and public affairs for The Gillette Company, where he managed Gillette's global communications strategies.  He also held communications management positions with Miller Brewing Company and Scitex America, and was a reporter for the Boston Herald.  Kraus received a bachelor's degree from Boston University (Mass.).
Eric A. Kraus
, senior vice president and general counsel,is responsible for all of Tyco Healthcare's legal matters, including providing legal advice to senior management on business and commercial issues, overseeing litigation, leading mergers and acquisitions and managing FDA/global regulatory legal issues.  He also leads compliance efforts in many areas critical to operating in the healthcare industry.  Masterson, 45, has served as chief legal officer of Tyco Healthcare since 1999.  He joined Kendall as senior counsel in 1993, and before that, he was a junior partner of Nutter, McClennen & Fish, where he specialized in securities law, mergers and acquisitions and corporate governance issues.  He received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University (N.Y.) and a law degree from New York University Law School.
John H. Masterson
senior vice president of human resources (HR), is responsible for leading the global human resources organization and overseeing all HR functions, including recruiting, compensation, benefits, and training and development.  Quinn-Quintin, 49, joined Tyco Healthcare in October 2006 from Andrew Corporation, where, as vice president and chief human resources officer, she had worldwide responsibility for all major functions within HR, such as leadership development, senior level recruiting, succession planning and aligning HR strategies to drive business results.  During her tenure at Andrew, Quinn-Quintin integrated several acquisitions, while standardizing U.S. and international benefit offerings.  Prior to joining Andrew, she was vice president of human resources for Textron Inc.'s Industrial Segment.  She holds a bachelor's degree from Stonehill College (Mass.).
Karen A. Quinn-Quintin
,
, senior vice president of business development, is responsible for managing business development, including acquisitions, divestitures and licensing/distribution, as well as leading Tyco Healthcare's portfolio management initiatives.  She played a key role in managing the acquisitions of Sherwood-Davis & Geck, U.S. Surgical and Mallinckrodt, in addition to managing 60 other transactions for Tyco Healthcare.  Wendell, 45, also is involved with organic growth initiatives focused on new product development.  After joining Kendall in 1986 as a development engineer, she held various positions in research & development and marketing before becoming a product manager in Kendall's vascular therapy division.  Wendell received a bachelor's degree from Lawrence Institute of Technology (Mich.) and a master's degree in biomedical engineering from the University of Illinois.
Amy A. Wendell
, vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer, is responsible for all aspects of accounting operations, including external financial reporting and establishment and enforcement of Tyco Healthcare's accounting policies and procedures, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Richard G. Brown
 
3
(GAAP) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requirements.  Brown also is responsible for Tyco Healthcare's internal accounting controls.  Prior to joining Tyco Healthcare in September 2006, Brown, 58, was corporate controller and chief accounting officer at Eastman Kodak.  Before that, he spent 32 years at Ernst & Young as an audit partner.  Brown received a bachelor's degree from Ball State University (Ind.).
, vice president and treasurer, is responsible for all aspects of the treasury function  domestic and international  including equity and debt financing activities in the financial markets, as well as oversight of relationships with external constituencies such as banks, rating agencies and fixed income analysts.  DaSilva joined Tyco Healthcare from Tyco International, where he served as assistant treasurer.  Prior to joining Tyco, DaSilva, 42, was a financial vice president at Lucent, where he served as CFO for Lucent's worldwide services business unit, and also as assistant treasurer.  Prior to Lucent, he worked in the treasury function at General Motors.  DaSilva has a bachelor's degree from Georgetown University (Washington, D.C.) and a master's degree in management from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University (Ill.).
Kevin G. DaSilva
, vice president of tax, is responsible for all aspects of tax and for leading Tyco Healthcare's global tax organization, including the design and implementation of global tax policy and strategies and the creation of a tax department that identifies and implements best practices.  Green joined Tyco Healthcare from Tyco International, where, as vice president of tax planning and analysis, he was responsible for global tax planning for acquisitions, dispositions, transfer pricing, internal and external financings, as well as non-U.S. audits and compliance.  Prior to joining Tyco, Green, 48, worked at Accenture, AT&T and Lucent.  He holds a bachelor's degree from Georgetown University (Washington, D.C.) and a master of laws in tax and a juris doctor degree from Boston University School of Law (Mass.).
Eric C. Green
, vice president of corporate operations, is responsible for managing Tyco Healthcare's core operations  consisting of 65 manufacturing locations worldwide  as well as the engineering, operational excellence, environmental health & safety and manufacturing systems & planning functions.  Prior to joining Tyco Healthcare in 2004, King, 39, was the founder and CEO of OncoSim Inc., a start-up specializing in biological simulation, signal transduction pathway models and knowledge management tools for the oncology pharmaceutical sector.  He also worked at Houston Street Exchange, an online energy commodities exchange, where he was the COO and led capital-raising activities.  King is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy (Md.) and holds a master's degree in civil engineering from Pennsylvania State University and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University (Mass.).
Brian D. King
, vice president of investor relations,is responsible for developing Tyco Healthcare's relationship with shareholders and institutional investors and plays a key role in shaping corporate strategy.  Prior to joining Tyco Healthcare in October 2006, Lannum, 42, was a senior health care investment analyst for American Express Asset Management.  Before that, he was a senior analyst and portfolio manager at Putnam Investments.  He also worked at Mallinckrodt Inc., a division of Tyco Healthcare, Boatmen's Trust Co. (now a part of Bank of America) and Edward Jones.  A Chartered Financial Analyst, Lannum holds a bachelor's degree from the Washington
Coleman N. Lannum
 
4
University Olin School of Business (Mo.) and a master's degree in business administration from Texas A&M University.
, vice president and global chief information officer, is responsible for delivering information technology solutions and services, as well as developing and delivering new ways for Tyco Healthcare to improve operational efficiencies.  His teams are responsible for increasing employee productivity, while significantly decreasing the cost of technology.  McManama, 52, has held a range of positions within the Information Services organization since joining Kendall in 1981. He also serves as a board member of the Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX), of which Tyco Healthcare is a member.  McManama received a bachelor's degree from Boston College (Mass.).
Steven M. McManama
, vice president of global supply chain, is responsible for directing the strategic, global and day-to-day operations of Tyco Healthcare's customer service, strategic procurement, working capital, inventory distribution operations, trade compliance, supply chain solutions and systems functions.  Muse, 55, has held several managerial positions within the logistics function at Tyco Healthcare.  Prior to joining Kendall in 1979, Muse was transportation manager for Bradlees and distribution center manager for Stop & Shop.  He holds bachelor's degrees from Northeastern University (Mass.) and the University of Maine.
James M. Muse
, vice president of quality assurance,is responsible for leading Tyco Healthcare's quality assurance function as it supports and strengthens manufacturing excellence and business growth.  Since joining Tyco Healthcare in 1999, Nighan has held several managerial positions within quality assurance, including vice president of quality assurance in the medical group and, most recently, vice president of regulatory compliance in the regulatory affairs group.  He also led the development and worldwide implementation of the quality improvement process, designed to improve the organization's quality culture, processes and systems.  Nighan, 37, holds a bachelor's and a master's degree in nursing from Northeastern University (Mass.).
Warren G. Nighan
, vice president of regulatory affairs,isresponsible for ensuring compliance with U.S. Food & Drug Administration regulations, as well as those of international regulatory authorities.  This includes managing federal agency inspections and coordinating the product approval process by these agencies.  Olson, 51, also directs the coordination, compilation and submission of Investigational Device Exemptions, 510(k) submissions and foreign registrations to appropriate regulatory authorities.  He has held a variety of managerial positions within regulatory affairs and quality assurance since joining Kendall in 1988.  Olson received a bachelor's degree from Bridgewater State College (Mass.).
David A. Olson
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in four business segments: Electronics, Fire & Security, Healthcare and Engineered Products & Services.  With 2006 revenue of $41 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at .
www.tyco.com
 
5
ABOUT TYCO HEALTHCARE
As a major business segment of Tyco International Ltd., Tyco Healthcare manufactures, distributes and services an extensive product line that includes disposable medical supplies, monitoring equipment, innovative wound closure products, advanced surgical devices, medical instruments and bulk analgesic pharmaceuticals. With industry-leading brand names such as Auto Suture, Kendall, Mallinckrodt, Nellcor, Puritan Bennett, Syneture, United States Surgical and Valleylab, Tyco Healthcare products are found in virtually every healthcare setting. For further information, please visit the website at .
www.tycohealthcare.com
 
 
 
6

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Dec. 11, 2006  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today announced the executive team that will lead Tyco Electronics as it becomes a separate, independently traded company.
Tyco Electronics is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions and wireless systems with 2006 sales of $12.7 billion to customers in 150 countries.  The company employs approximately 99,000 people around the world, serving customers in industries ranging from automotive, appliances and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers and consumer electronics.
Tyco Electronics' senior management team is led by Chief Executive Officer (CEO) , who brings broad experience in the communications and electronics industries.  Lynch, 52, originally joined Tyco International in 2004 as president of the company's $6.5 billion Engineered Products & Services business segment.  He was appointed to the Tyco Electronics CEO slot when it was announced that the company would become an independent, separately traded entity next year.  Previously, Lynch served as an executive vice president at Motorola and president and chief executive officer of Motorola's personal communications sector  a leading supplier of cellular handsets.  He also served as president of Motorola's integrated electronics systems sector, a prominent supplier to the automotive market.  Prior to his work at Motorola, Lynch was senior vice president and general manager of the satellite and broadcast networks systems segment of General Instrument Corporation.  Lynch holds a bachelor's degree in commerce from Rider University (N.J.).
Thomas J. (Tom) Lynch
The following executives report to CEO Tom Lynch, unless otherwise indicated:
 
Operating Leadership:
serves as president of Tyco Electronics, as well as president of the company's electronic components business  a leading global supplier of passive electronic components, including connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, sensors, and wire and cable.  A 23-year veteran of Tyco Electronics and AMP (prior to Tyco's 1999 purchase of AMP), Gromer has served in a variety of regional and global assignments including senior vice president of worldwide sales and services, president of the global automotive division, vice president of Central and Eastern Europe, and general manager of AMP Germany.  Gromer, 61, has also held various general management positions with Proctor and Gamble, ITT Components Group, and Zahnradfabrik Friedichshafen.  Gromer received his undergraduate degree and doctorate in physics from the University of Stuttgart, Germany.
Dr. Juergen W. Gromer
serves as president of the network solutions group of Tyco Electronics, one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for telecommunications and energy networks.  Clarke, 53, is responsible for all aspects of sales, development and operations for the segment worldwide.  Prior to his work at Tyco Electronics, Clarke held several senior management positions with Raychem Corporation in Europe and Asia, including vice president of the telecom division and as Asia division manager for Raychem's telecom and energy groups.  Clarke holds a bachelor's degree in engineering from Leicester University (England, UK) and a master's degree in business administration from the London Business School (UK).
Alan C. Clarke
serves as president of Tyco Electronics' wireless systems business (M/A-COM), a leading innovator of wireless technology for critical communications, radar and defense applications.  Dougherty, 44, directs all sales, marketing, research and development, product management, and operations globally.  Prior to joining Tyco Electronics, Dougherty worked 25 years for Motorola, most recently serving as vice president and general manager of the company's voice & data solutions group for Motorola's Connected Home Solutions (CHS) business.  At Motorola, he also served as vice president and general manager of the company's transmission networks systems and vice president of marketing for Motorola Broadband's transmission network systems business unit.  Dougherty holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a master's degree in business administration from Villanova University (Pa.).
Charles P. (Chuck) Dougherty
, 39, serves as senior vice president of Tyco Telecommunications, the only U.S.-based vertically integrated designer, manufacturer, installer, and maintenance provider of
David R. Coughlan
 
2
undersea fiber optic cable in the world.  Coughlan, who originally joined Tyco Electronics in 2001, has responsibility for all aspects of Tyco Telecommunications including sales and marketing, research and development, product management and operations.  He previously served as senior vice president of business development for Tyco Electronics, with a focus on acquisitions, divestitures and business integration.  Before his work at Tyco Electronics, Coughlan served as director of business development for Tyco International.  He holds a master's degree in business administration from the Whittemore School of Business and Economics (N.H.), as well as a bachelor of science degree in finance from Lehigh University (Pa.).
, a 30-year veteran of Tyco Electronics and AMP, serves as senior vice president in charge of the company's global communications, computer and consumer electronics (CC&CE) business.  This unit provides related industries with connectors, cable assemblies, value-added assemblies, relays, switches and battery packs.  Prior to assuming his current role in 2001, Okamoto, 57, held a variety of positions in sales, marketing, operations and general management within the company.  Okamoto also worked for Northern Telecom Japan Inc. as vice president of the company's integrated system network from 1986 through 1988.  He holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Stanford University (Cal.).  Okamoto reports to Gromer in the electronic components business.
Minoru (Mooch) Okamoto
Functional Leadership:
, a five-year veteran of Tyco Electronics, serves as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the company.  Curtin most recently served as vice president and corporate controller for Tyco Electronics, where he was responsible for the company's financial reporting, control and accounting policies  including Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.  In his new role, Curtin, 38, is responsible for developing and implementing the overall financial strategy for Tyco Electronics and for creating the robust financial infrastructure necessary to drive the company's financial direction, vision and compliance initiatives as it becomes a publicly traded entity.  Prior to joining Tyco Electronics, Curtin worked at Arthur Andersen & Co. where he served in the audit and accounting advisory services group with a focus on large multinational companies.  Curtin holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Albright College (Pa.), and is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA).
Terrence R. Curtin
has been named executive vice president and general counsel for Tyco Electronics.  In addition to Scott's responsibilities relating to law and governance, he will also lead strategy and business development for the company.  He currently serves as senior vice president of corporate planning for Tyco International and is responsible for managing Tyco
Robert A. (Bob) Scott
 
3
International's planned separation into three independent, publicly traded companies in 2007.  Scott, 56, previously served as vice president of strategy and business planning for Tyco's Engineered Products & Services segment.  Prior to joining Tyco, Scott served as senior vice president and chief of staff for Motorola's integrated electronics sector.  Before the merger of General Instrument Corporation and Motorola in 2000, Scott had served as senior vice president, general counsel, and secretary of General Instrument.  He holds a bachelor's degree in political science from Colgate University (N.Y.), a master's degree in city planning from Cornell University (N.Y.), and a law degree from Rutgers University (N.J.).
serves as senior vice president of communications and public affairs for Tyco Electronics.  A 20-year veteran in communications and marketing, she leads all internal and external communications, corporate branding and reputation, government relations and philanthropic programs for the company.  Wainwright, 46, joined Tyco Electronics in June from Merck & Co., Inc., where she most recently served as vice president of public affairs.  Prior to that, she served as deputy commissioner of communications for the U.S. Social Security Administration.  She holds a bachelor's degree in communications from the University of Delaware and a master's degree in business administration from Temple University (Pa.).
Joan E. Wainwright
, as senior vice president of global human resources, is responsible for developing and implementing the human resources processes, programs, policies and shared services for Tyco Electronics, with approximately 99,000 employees in 54 countries.  For the past five years, she has led the company's global human resources organization, including, benefits, compensation, employee relations, legal compliance, payroll, human resources information systems, and security functions.  A 25-year veteran of Tyco Electronics and AMP, Leipold, 46, has worked in training and development, organizational development, executive education and leadership development, as well as purchasing and engineering.  She holds a bachelor's degree in quantitative business analysis and a master's degree in business administration  both from the Pennsylvania State University (Pa.).
Jane A. Leipold
as vice president of technology, oversees the company's research and development laboratories in Harrisburg, Pa., and Menlo Park, Calif., as well as the company's plating systems group in Winston-Salem, N.C.  In addition to his research activities, he advises management on technical strategy and chairs Tyco Electronics' engineering council  a group of the company's engineering leaders.  Perko previously served in a variety of positions over 20 years at M/A-COM  developing new technologies and managing several associated product lines.  Prior to that, Perko, 55, worked as a microwave amplifier design engineer at Varian Associates and Watkins Johnson Company.  Perko earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado and holds eight U.S. patents.
Richard J. Perko,
 
4
has been named senior vice president and treasurer for Tyco Electronics.  In this capacity, he will oversee all of the company's cash management, banking, capital structure development and funding, foreign exchange, contingent liabilities, investments, and risk management activities.  Calastri currently serves as vice president and assistant treasurer for Tyco International.  Prior to his service with Tyco, Calastri, 49, served for 20 years in a variety of management positions with IBM  including assistant treasurer, global risk manager and vice president of finance for IBM's IGF division in Europe.  He earned his undergraduate degree in economics from Universita Bocconi (Italy) and holds a master's degree in finance from Pace University (N.Y.).  Calastri will report to CFO Terrence Curtin.
Mario Calastri
has been named senior vice president and chief tax officer for Tyco Electronics.  He currently serves as vice president of tax reporting for Tyco International.  In his new role, Resch, 49, will be responsible for the company's global tax strategy, as well as tax accounting and compliance.  He holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Fordham University (N.Y.) and a master's degree in business administration from Hofstra University (N.Y.).  Resch will report to CFO Terrence Curtin.
Eric J. Resch
has been named vice president of investor relations for Tyco Electronics.  In his new role, Roselli will be responsible for communicating the company's strategy and overall performance to investors.  Roselli, 34, currently serves as director of investor relations for Tyco International.  Prior to his service with Tyco, Roselli spent six years at Citigroup as an associate analyst in the equity research department.  Roselli holds a bachelor's degree from Shippensburg University (Pa.) and is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA).  Roselli will report to CFO Terrence Curtin.
John M. Roselli
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in four business segments: Electronics, Fire & Security, Healthcare, and Engineered Products & Services.  With 2006 revenue of $41 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at .
www.tyco.com
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS
Tyco Electronics, currently a business segment of Tyco International Ltd., is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions and wireless systems, with 2006 sales of $12.7 billion to customers in 150 countries.  Tyco Electronics designs,
 
5
manufactures and markets products for customers in industries from automotive, appliances and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers and consumer electronics.  With over 8,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities, Tyco Electronics' commitment is its customers' advantage.  More information on Tyco Electronics can be found at .
www.tycoelectronics.com
 
6


