FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20070807060243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 7, 2007, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)           Exhibits
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
TYCO INTERNATIONAL REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF $0.55 PER SHARE BEFORE SPECIAL ITEMS; IMPACT OF SPECIAL ITEMS RESULTS IN LOSS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF $6.13 PER SHARE
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
                 
Results Impacted by Charges of $3.3 Billion for Special Items, Primarily from the Previously Disclosed Settlement of Legacy Securities Class Action Litigation
                 
Spin-offs of Healthcare and Electronics Businesses Completed on June 29, 2007
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  August 7, 2007  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today reported a loss of $6.13 in diluted GAAP EPS from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $0.55 before special items for the fiscal third quarter of 2007. Revenue in the quarter increased 8% versus the prior year to $5.1 billion, with organic revenue growth of 5%.
1
 
Third quarter income from continuing operations was negatively impacted by previously disclosed special items which totaled $3.3 billion after tax or $6.68 per share as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 29, 2007, Tyco International completed the spin-off of its healthcare and electronics businesses and the operating results of these businesses have been reclassified as a single line item, net of tax, in discontinued operations for the third quarter of 2007 and all prior periods.
In conjunction with the spin-off, Tyco International executed a four-for-one reverse share split under which each Tyco share was converted into one-fourth of a share. As a result, share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the reverse share split for the third quarter and all previous periods.
an important agreement to resolve the majority of our legacy securities class action litigation. Operationally, Tyco International's performance came in at the high end of our estimates as we had solid growth in revenue and operating income before special items driven by improvements across most of our businesses."
We also reached
Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen said, "We achieved a significant milestone during the third quarter by completing the spin-off of our healthcare and electronics businesses.
www.tyco.com on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's website.
Organic revenue growth, free cash flow, operating income before special items, operating margin before special items, net income from continuing operations before special items and EPS from continuing operations before special items are all non-GAAP financial measures and are described below. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables. Additional schedules can be found at
2
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
In connection with the spin-offs of the healthcare and electronics businesses, Tyco International has realigned its businesses into the following segments: ADT Worldwide; Fire Protection Services; Flow Control; Safety Products and Electrical and Metal Products. The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated. All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions. All comparisons are to the quarter ended June 30, 2006 unless otherwise indicated.
ADT Worldwide
 
ADT Worldwide designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. Revenue in this segment increased 6% in the third quarter with organic revenue growth of 4%. Geographically, North America and the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region both had organic growth of 3% while Asia had growth of 16%.
Operating income was $205 million and the operating margin was 10.7%. Before special items, operating income increased 8% to $262 million. The operating margin before special items improved to 13.7%. This reflected the benefit of improved attrition rates partially offset by lower recurring revenue in Continental Europe and modest increases in sales and marketing expenses. Special items in the quarter included $11 million of restructuring costs, primarily in Europe and a $46 million goodwill impairment.
3
 
Fire Protection Services
 
Fire Protection Services designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems to commercial, industrial and governmental customers. Revenue in this segment increased 7% in the quarter to $882 million with organic revenue growth of 4%.
Operating income was $57 million and the operating margin was 6.5%. Before special items, operating income increased 13% to $70 million. The operating margin before special items of 7.9% improved due to the benefit of higher revenue in North America, Asia and Australia partially offset by weaker performance in Europe. Special items of $13 million in the quarter consisted primarily of restructuring charges in Europe.
Flow Control
 
Flow Control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for the water and wastewater markets, the energy markets and other process industries. Revenue in this segment increased 22% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 16% driven by strong double digit growth across all regions.
Operating income was $124 million and the operating margin was 12.6%. Before special items, operating income increased 45% versus the prior year to $126 million and the operating margin before special items improved 200 basis points due to higher revenue and improved operating efficiency.
4
 
Safety Products
 
Safety Products designs, manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products including fire suppression products, breathing apparatus, intrusion security, access control and video management systems. Revenue in this segment increased 5% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 2%. Strong revenue growth in fire suppression and electronic security was partially offset by lower revenue in the life safety business.
Operating income was $73 million and the operating margin was 16.2%. Before special items, operating income of $81 million was essentially flat versus prior year. The benefit from volume increases in fire suppression and electronic security was offset by a decrease in sales in the life safety business. Special items in the quarter included restructuring and impairment charges of $8 million. Special items in the prior year quarter included a $100 million charge for the estimated cost of a voluntary replacement program for certain fire sprinkler heads.
Electrical and Metal Products
 
Electrical and Metal Products designs, manufactures and sells steel tubing and pipe products, pre-wired armored cable and flexible conduit products for commercial construction. Revenue in this segment decreased 1% in the quarter primarily due to lower volumes and prices in core steel products.
5
Operating income decreased 44% to $47 million primarily due to lower steel and copper spreads. On a quarter sequential basis, operating income improved by $21 million, as expected.
OTHER ITEMS
Revenue in Corporate and Other, consisting primarily of Infrastructure Services, was $341 million in the quarter compared to $319 million in 2006. Operating income for these businesses was $24 million compared to $19 million in the third quarter of 2006. Beginning in the fourth quarter, Infrastructure Services will be reported as a discontinued operation as Tyco explores exiting this business.
                 
Corporate expense was $3.1 billion in the quarter. Special items in the quarter consisted primarily of the settlement of the securities class action litigation. Before special items, corporate expense totaled $161 million compared to $183 million in the third quarter of 2006.
                 
Cash from operating activities was $125 million in the quarter. The Company had negative free cash flow of $137 million and this included $340 million in payments for legacy tax items, separation and restructuring.
                 
Charges related to Tyco's previously announced restructuring program totaled $45 million in the third quarter and $158 million year to date.
                 
OUTLOOK
For the fourth quarter of 2007, Tyco expects to achieve revenue growth of 6 to 7% (organic revenue growth of approximately 4%) and an operating margin before special items of 9.0 to 9.5%.  The revenue and operating margin outlook excludes Infrastructure Services that will be reported as a discontinued operation in the fourth quarter. Please see the disclosures at the end of this press release for additional information.
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco completed the spin-off of its healthcare and electronics businesses on June 29, 2007 and today has annual revenues of more than $18 billion and 115,000 employees. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
The company will hold a conference call for investors today beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET.  The call can be accessed in three ways:
6
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com.
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 288-8960.  The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (612) 288-0337.
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 12:00 p.m. on August 7, 2007 and ending at 11:59 p.m. on August 15, 2007. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 475-6701. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (320) 365-3844. The replay access code for all callers is 880300.
                 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
"Organic revenue growth," "free cash flow" (FCF), "operating income before special items", "net income before special items", "earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations"  and "operating margin before special items"
are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Organic revenue growth is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business.  The difference between reported net revenue growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications and changes to the fiscal year).  Organic revenue growth is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that:  i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.  It is also a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue.  This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue growth in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue growth.
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows that the company believes are useful to identify.  FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It is also a significant component in the company's incentive compensation plans.  The difference reflects the impact from:
                 
the sale of accounts receivable programs,
                 
net capital expenditures,
                 
acquisition of customer accounts (ADT dealer program),
                 
cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities, and
                 
voluntary pension contributions.
7
The impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs and voluntary pension contributions is added or subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.  Capital expenditures and the ADT dealer program are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted from Cash Flow from Operating Activities because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses.
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and that therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure.  This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures.  Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period.  See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
The company has presented and forecast its operating income, net income, EPS and operating margin before special items.  Special Items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Tyco Healthcare into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable.  The company utilizes operating income, net income, EPS and operating margin before special items to assess overall operating performance, segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  They are also significant components in the company's incentive compensation plans. Operating income, net income, EPS and operating margin before special items are useful measures for investors because they permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods.  Net income and EPS before special items do not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in operating income before special items.  The difference between operating income and operating margin before special items and operating income and operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Tyco Healthcare into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported operating income, net income, EPS and operating margin. This limitation is best addressed by using operating income and operating margin before special items in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
The company presents its operating income, net income, EPS and operating margin forecast before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  Because the company often cannot predict the amount and timing of unusual or special items
8
and associated charges or gains that may be recorded in the company's financial statements, it does not present forecasts that include the impact of those items.  See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of operating income before special items.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing the following subjects: future financial condition and operating results. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended Sept. 29, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 29, 2007.
9
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarterly period ended December 29, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 30, 2007.
NOTE:
           
10
(1) Revenue related primarily to Infrastructure Services
(2) Includes operating income of $24 million and $19 million for the quarter ended June 29, 2007 and June 30, 2006, respectively, primarily related to Infrastructure Services.  Includes operating income of $68 million and $63 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2007 and June 30, 2006, respectively, primarily related to Infrastructure Services.
11
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarterly period ended December 29, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 30, 2007.
NOTE:
           
12
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
13
 
 
NOTE:   Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
14
 
15
 
 
16
 
 
 
17


