FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20070110102952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On January 5, 2007, Tyco International Ltd issued press releases announcing the nominees to the board of directors of Tyco Healthcare and Tyco Electronics as they prepare to become separate, independent traded companies. A copy of each press release is furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)           Exhibits
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Jan. 5, 2007  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today announced the nominees to the board of directors for Tyco Healthcare as it becomes a separate, independently traded company in 2007.  Nine of the 11 nominees are independent directors whose service becomes effective immediately upon separation.
Tyco Healthcare, one of Tyco International's four major business segments, is a leading global manufacturer, distributor and servicer of medical devices, with sales of $9.6 billion in fiscal 2006.  Its product portfolio includes disposable medical supplies, monitoring equipment, medical instruments and bulk analgesic pharmaceuticals, sold under well-known brand names such as AutoSuture, Kendall, Mallinckrodt, Nellcor, Puritan Bennett, Syneture, United States Surgical, Valleylab and others.  Tyco Healthcare employs more than 40,000 people worldwide.
Tyco named the following nominees to serve on the Tyco Healthcare board of directors:
53, will serve as non-executive chairman of the board.  Reilley is chairman of Praxair, a position he has held since joining the company in 2000.  Mr. Reilley also served as chief executive officer (CEO) at Praxair from 2000 until his retirement from that position in December 2006.  Praxair produces, sells and distributes industrial gases and high-performance surface coatings, along with related services, materials and systems.  Before joining Praxair, he was the chief operating officer (COO) at DuPont and he held several executive positions at Conoco earlier in his career.  Reilley is also a member of the board of directors of Praxair, H.J. Heinz Company, Marathon Oil Corporation and The Conservation Fund.  He holds a bachelor's degree from Oklahoma State University and attended the Program for Management Development at Harvard Business School.
Dennis H. Reilley,
 
57, is president and CEO of Tyco Healthcare, positions he has held since 1995 and 2006, respectively.  He joined Kendall Healthcare Products Company as group president in 1991 and became president of Tyco Healthcare in 1995.  Prior to joining Kendall/Tyco Healthcare, he was president of Infusaid, Inc., a division of the Pfizer Hospital Products Group that manufactures and markets implantable infusion pumps and ports.  Before that, he held sales and marketing positions with the Pharmaseal and McGaw divisions of the American Hospital Supply Corporation.  Meelia is also a member of the board of directors of Haemonetics, a manufacturer of blood processing equipment.  He received a bachelor's degree from Saint Anselm College and a master's degree in business administration from Boston College.
Richard J. Meelia,
46, is senior vice president of Eaton Corporation, a diversified global industrial manufacturer, and president of the Eaton Fluid Power Group, which includes aerospace, mobile and industrial hydraulics, automotive fluid connectors and filtration systems.  Prior to joining Eaton in 2000, Arnold worked at General Electric Company, where he served from 1983 to 2000 in a number of senior management positions, including president and CEO of GE Lighting, Europe; president of GE Plastics, Greater China; and president of GE Appliances, Asia Pacific.  He holds a bachelor's degree from California State University-San Bernardino and a master's degree in business administration from Pepperdine University.
Craig Arnold,
63, is executive vice president and immediate past chief financial officer (CFO) of Eastman Kodak Company, a global imaging innovator, providing leading products and services to the photographic, graphic communications and healthcare markets.  Brust will retire from the company in February 2007.  Prior to joining Eastman Kodak Company, he was CFO of Unisys Corporation from 1997 to 1999.  Brust joined Unisys following a 31-year career at General Electric Company, where he last led the finance operations of GE's plastics business.  He is also a member of the board of directors of Delphi Corporation, Applied Materials, Inc., and WMS Industries.   He received a bachelor's degree from The Pennsylvania State University.
Robert H. Brust,
64, is a founding partner and chairman emeritus of Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, Inc., a leading full-service advertising and marketing services company with primary offices in Boston, New York City and Greenville, South Carolina.  From 1968 to 2003, he served as president and CEO of the agency, which is now part of the advertising and marketing services holding company The Interpublic Group.  Connors is also a member of the board of directors of Hasbro, Inc. and chairman of the board of Partners HealthCare System, Inc., a $6.5 billon integrated healthcare provider system founded by Brigham and Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.  He also serves as chairman of the
Jack Connors, Jr.,
 
2
board of fellows at Harvard Medical School and chairman of the Dana Farber/Partners CancerCare joint venture.  Connors holds a bachelor's degree from Boston College.
54, is executive vice president and CFO of Tyco International, positions he has held since joining the company in 2005 from Interpublic Group, a leading global advertising and marketing services holding company, where he was COO.  Prior to that, he served as CFO of Pharmacia Corporation; vice president and CFO of Nabisco; and president of Nabisco International.  Coughlin is also a member of the board of directors of Dun & Bradstreet.  He received a bachelor's degree from Boston College.
Christopher J. Coughlin,
58, is the immediate past chairman of Sprint Nextel Corporation, a global communications company that offers communication products and solutions, including wireless, long-distance voice and data transport, global internet protocol (IP) and local and multi-product bundles.  Before his election as chairman of Sprint Nextel in 2005, Donahue served as president and CEO of Nextel Communications, Inc.; president of the northeast region for AT&T Wireless; and president of the central region for McCaw Cellular Communications.  He is also a member of the board of directors of NVR, Inc. and Eastman Kodak Company.  Donahue received a bachelor's degree from John Carroll University.
Timothy M. Donahue,
53, most recently served as executive vice president, human resources, of Albertson's, Inc., a major U.S. supermarket chain that was sold in mid-2006 to a consortium including SuperValu, CVS, and Cerberus.  Prior to assuming this role in 2001, Herbert has served since 1969 in a variety of positions in retail operations and human resources management at Jewel Osco, a division of American Stores Company, which was acquired by Albertson's in 1999 in one of the largest retail mergers in history.  Herbert received her master's degree in business administration from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.
Kathy J. Herbert,
51, is chairman and CEO of Pentair, having been CEO since 2001 and chairman since 2002.  A diversified manufacturing company, Pentair is one of the world's largest providers of products and systems used in the movement, treatment, storage and use of water, and it designs and manufactures enclosures and thermal systems that house and protect sensitive electronic and electrical components.  Prior to joining Pentair in 1998, he held successively higher management positions at United Technologies Corporation, General Electric Company and McKinsey & Company.  A member of the board of directors of Pentair, Hogan holds a bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Texas at Austin.
Randall J. Hogan, III,
61, is president of the Global Health Program of the Gates Foundation, which is dedicated to improving people's lives by sharing advances in health and learning with
Dr. Tadataka Yamada,
 
3
the global community.  Before assuming his current position in 2006, Yamada served as chairman of research and development of GlaxoSmithKline, Inc. and as chairman of research and development-pharmaceuticals of SmithKline Beecham.  He was Physician-in-Chief at the University of Michigan Medical Center and John G. Searle Professor and chairman of its department of internal medicine.  Yamada received a bachelor's degree from Stanford University and an M.D. degree from New York University.
60, served as president and CEO of Yale New Haven Health System and Yale-New Haven Hospital from 1991 until his retirement at the end of 2005.  After joining the organization in 1970, he held senior management positions of increasing responsibility and served as executive vice president and COO from 1978 until 1991.  He is a director of NewAlliance Bankshares Inc. and NewAlliance Bank.  Zaccagnino holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and a master's degree of public health (healthcare management) from Yale University School of Medicine.
Joseph A. Zaccagnino,
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in four business segments: Electronics, Fire & Security, Healthcare and Engineered Products & Services.  With 2006 revenue of $41 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
ABOUT TYCO HEALTHCARE
As a major business segment of Tyco International Ltd., Tyco Healthcare manufactures, distributes and services an extensive product line that includes disposable medical supplies, monitoring equipment, innovative wound closure products, advanced surgical devices, medical instruments and bulk analgesic pharmaceuticals.  With industry-leading brand names such as AutoSuture, Kendall, Mallinckrodt, Nellcor, Puritan Bennett, Syneture and Valleylab, Tyco Healthcare products are found in virtually every healthcare setting.  For further information, please visit the website at www.tycohealthcare.com.
4

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Jan. 5, 2007  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today announced the nominees to the board of directors for Tyco Electronics as it becomes a separate, independently traded company in 2007.  Nine of the 11 nominees are independent directors whose service becomes effective immediately upon separation.
Tyco Electronics is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions and wireless systems with fiscal 2006 sales of $12.7 billion to customers in 150 countries.  The company employs approximately 99,000 people around the world, serving customers in industries ranging from automotive, appliances and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers and consumer electronics.
Tyco named the following nominees to serve on the Tyco Electronics board of directors:
, 64, will serve as non-executive chairman of the board.  Poses ischairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of American Standard Companies, a global manufacturer and provider of air conditioning systems and services, bathroom and kitchen fixtures and fittings, and vehicle control systems.  Poses began his tenure at American Standard in 1999.  Prior to that, he served in roles of increasing responsibility over 30 years at Allied Signal.  Poses holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from New York University.  He is also a director of Centex Corporation and Raytheon Company.
Frederic M. Poses
, 52,serves as Tyco Electronics' CEO.  He originally joined Tyco International in 2004 as president of the company's $6.5 billion Engineered Products & Services business segment.  He was appointed to the Tyco Electronics CEO slot when it was announced
Thomas J. (Tom) Lynch
 
that the company would become an independent, separately traded entity in 2007.  Previously, Lynch served as an executive vice president at Motorola and president and CEO of Motorola's personal communications sector.  He also served as president of Motorola's integrated electronics systems sector.  Prior to his work at Motorola, Lynch was senior vice president and general manager of the satellite and broadcast networks systems segment of General Instrument Corporation.  Lynch holds a bachelor's degree in commerce from Rider University (N.J.).
serves as executive vice president and business group executive of electronic materials and specialty materials for Rohm and Haas Company, a U.S.-based manufacturer of specialty materials found in a wide range of markets including building and construction, electronics, food and retail, household and personal care and industrial processes.  He joined Rohm and Haas Company in 1989 and has held various and increasing leadership positions in marketing, research and general management.   Before joining Rohm & Haas, Brondeau, 49, held positions in engineering, research, and sales and marketing at Air Liquide in Paris.  He holds a bachelor's degree in biochemical engineering from INSA (France), a master's degree in biochemical engineering from the Universite de Montpellier (France), and a doctorate in biochemical engineering from the Universite de Toulouse (France).
Pierre R. Brondeau
is an advisor to CEOs and corporate boards who provides practical expertise in the areas of corporate governance, global strategy and succession.  He earned a master's degree in business administration and doctorate from Harvard Business School (Mass.) and went on to serve on the Harvard Business School faculty.  Winner of the Bell Ringer (best teacher) award at General Electric's Crotonville Institute and the best teacher award at Wharton and Northwestern University, Charan, 67, is a distinguished fellow of the National Academy of Human Resources.  A well-known author and speaker, he is a director of Austin Industries and the Six Sigma Academy, and serves on the National Association of Corporate Directors' Blue Ribbon Commission on Corporate Governance.
Ram Charan
serves as president of Tyco Electronics, as well as president of the company's electronic components business  a leading global supplier of passive electronic components, including connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, sensors, and wire and cable.  A 23-year veteran of Tyco Electronics and AMP (prior to Tyco's 1999 purchase of AMP), Gromer has served in a variety of regional and global assignments including senior vice president of worldwide sales and services, president of the global automotive division, and vice president of Central and Eastern Europe.  Gromer, 61, has also held various general management positions with Proctor and Gamble, ITT Components
Dr. Juergen W. Gromer
 
2
Group, and Zahnradfabrik Friedichshafen.  He received his undergraduate degree and doctorate in physics from the University of Stuttgart (Germany).
, 62,is non-executive chairman of RTI International Metals.  Through its various subsidiaries, RTI manufactures and distributes titanium and specialty metal mill products, extruded shapes, formed parts and engineered systems for aerospace, industrial, defense, energy, chemical, and consumer applications.  Prior to his retirement, Hernandez served in various roles at USX Corporation, including vice chairman and chief financial officer (CFO) and executive vice president of finance and CFO.  He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh (Pa.) and holds a master's degree in business administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.  Hernandez is also lead director of ACE Ltd., a director of Eastman Chemical Company, and a trustee and vice chairman of BlackRock Funds.
Robert M. Hernandez
serves as senior vice president of human resources at GlaxoSmithKline plc.  GlaxoSmithKline researches, develops, manufactures, and markets pharmaceuticals, vaccines, over-the-counter medicines and health-related consumer products.  Phelan, 57, has held several roles of increasing responsibility at GlaxoSmithKline since he joined the company in 1981.  Prior to that, he worked as an attorney in the labor department at Obermayer, Rebmann, Maxwell & Hippel in Philadelphia (Pa.) and as a director of student services at The Ohio State University.  Phelan also served as an officer in the United States Army Medical Service Corps.  He holds a bachelor's and a law degree from Rutgers University (N.J.) and a master's degree from The Ohio State University.
Daniel J. Phelan
is the executive vice president and Co-CFO at Comcast Corporation.  He was named executive vice president in 1995 and Co-CFO in 2002, overseeing corporate development, accounting, reporting and tax matters.  Comcast develops, manages, and operates broadband cable networks, and is involved in programming content.  Before joining Comcast in 1988, Smith, 59 served as CFO at Advanta Corporation and as tax partner and head of the mergers and acquisitions practice at Arthur Andersen.  He holds a bachelor's degree from Ithaca College (N.Y.).  He is also a director of Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., and MGM Holdings, Inc.
Lawrence S. Smith
was executive vice president of global marketing resources and initiatives until December 2006 for Kraft Foods, Inc., a worldwide producer and distributor of branded food and beverage products.  She has held a variety of other positions at Kraft Foods, including as group vice president and president of electronic commerce and marketing services and as chief marketing officer for the company.  In 1977, Sneed, 59, began her career at General Foods Corporation  which merged with Kraft in 1989.  She holds a bachelor's degree from Simmons
Paula A. Sneed
 
3
College (Mass.) and a master's degree in business administration from the Harvard Graduate School of Business (Mass.).  She is also a Director of Airgas, Inc., and Charles Schwab Corporation.
is CEO of Waste Management, where he has been since 2000.  Waste Management provides comprehensive waste management services to municipal, commercial, industrial, and residential customers.  He has served in several roles at Waste Management, including executive vice president and CFO and senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary.  Prior to that, Steiner, 46, served as partner at Phelps Dunbar and as an attorney at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.  Steiner holds a bachelor's degree from Louisiana State University and a law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.  He is also a director of Waste Management, Inc.
David P. Steiner
, until her resignation in April 2006,was senior vice president and CFO at Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc., a professional services firm with insurance and reinsurance brokerage, consulting and investment management businesses.  Before joining Marsh & McLennan in January 2000, Wijnberg served as a senior vice president and treasurer of Tricon Global Restaurants, and held various positions at PepsiCo, Morgan Stanley Group, and American Express Company.  Wijnberg, 50, is a graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles and received a master's degree in business administration from the University of Southern California.  She is also a director of Tyco International.
Sandra S. Wijnberg
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. is a global, diversified company that provides vital products and services to customers in four business segments: Electronics, Fire & Security, Healthcare, and Engineered Products & Services.  With 2006 revenue of $41 billion, Tyco employs approximately 250,000 people worldwide.  More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS
Tyco Electronics, currently a business segment of Tyco International Ltd., is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions and wireless systems, with 2006 sales of $12.7 billion to customers in 150 countries.  Tyco Electronics designs, manufactures and markets products for customers in industries from automotive, appliances and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers and consumer electronics.  With over 8,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities,
 
4
Tyco Electronics' commitment is its customers' advantage.  More information on Tyco Electronics can be found at www.tycoelectronics.com.
5


