FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20080512164441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
 
On May 12, 2008, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing extensions of the previously announced consent solicitation and exchange offer for certain series of its outstanding public debt securities.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  May 12, 2008  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC, BSX: TYC) (the "Company") today announced that it will extend the previously announced consent solicitations and exchange offers for each series of outstanding notes issued under the Company's 1998 and 2003 indentures.  The Company previously announced that it had received consents from the holders of a majority in principal amount of each such series of notes.  Details of the results for each series of notes, as of 2:00 p.m. New York time, on May 12, 2008, are provided below.
 
As a result of the receipt of the requisite consents, and based on the waiver of any alleged defaults or events of default that may have arisen prior to April 11, 2008 contained therein, the Company has taken the necessary steps to dismiss the proceeding entitled pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.  On April 30, 2008, the Court entered an order dismissing that action with prejudice.  As a result, the Company expects to complete the consent solicitations and exchange offers in early June 2008.
The Bank of New York v. Tyco International Group S.A.
 
In accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the consent solicitation and exchange offer documents dated April 11, 2008 (the "Offer Documents"), delivered consents may no longer be revoked and tendered notes may no longer be withdrawn, unless the exchange offers and the consent solicitations are terminated in accordance with the Offer Documents. 
As the Company expects all conditions to the consummation of the transactions to be met at the end of May 2008, the Company and TIFSA are extending the Consent Date and Expiration Date (as such terms are defined in the Offer Documents) for noteholders to submit consents and tender applicable notes for exchange.  The new Consent Date and
 
 
 
the new Expiration Date are 5:00 p.m. New York City time, on June 2, 2008, subject to further extensions.
 
Consent Solicitation Results as of 2:00 p.m. New York time, May 12, 2008
:
 
 
This press release is neither an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any exchange Notes nor shall there be any sale of such notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification thereof under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.  Any offer of the exchange Notes is made only by means of a private offering memorandum. The exchange Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2007 revenues of more than $18 billion and has 118,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses
 
 
 
are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 and Tyco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 28, 2008.
 
 


