FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20080731062830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 31, 2008, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2008.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
 
                 
Revenue increased 11% with organic revenue growth of 6.2%
                 
Company achieved operating margin of 11.1% and operating margin before special items of 12.1%
                 
Company raises guidance for full year 2008 to a range of $2.97 to $2.99 for diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items
                 
Company continues to make progress in refining its portfolio
                 
Company completed $1 billion share repurchase program; new $1 billion program recently announced
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda - July 31, 2008  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today reported $0.41 in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the fiscal third quarter of 2008 and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items of $0.88.  Diluted EPS from continuing operations was negatively impacted by special items of $0.47 per share primarily for separation-related items and restructuring activities.  Diluted EPS from
 
 
continuing operations before special items increased 73%.  Revenue increased 11% versus the prior year to $5.2 billion, with organic revenue growth of 6.2%.  The company's operating margin was 11.1% and the operating margin before special items was 12.1%.
 
Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen said, "This was a solid quarter with improved revenue growth and strong operating margin performance across Tyco. Based on the strength of these results and our outlook for the fourth quarter, we are raising our full year earnings guidance.  We continued to make progress in refining our portfolio, including acquisitions that will strengthen our product and service offerings. We also announced a new $1 billion share repurchase program as part of our strategy to return a portion of our excess cash to shareholders.  These actions, combined with the progress we are making on a number of our strategic objectives, position Tyco for a strong finish to the year."
 
The company now expects full-year fiscal 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before special items to be in the range of $2.97 to $2.99 per share from the previous range of $2.65 to $2.75.
 
As part of its portfolio refinement activities, Tyco completed the acquisition of FirstService Security to strengthen ADT's systems integration capabilities in North America.  The company also announced the acquisition of two Sensormatic franchises and agreed to purchase IntelliVid, a leading developer of advanced video analytics.  Tyco also is making progress in divesting certain non-core businesses and to date in fiscal 2008 has received $1 billion in proceeds from divestitures including the majority of its Infrastructure Services Business, Ancon Building Products and Nippon Dry Chemical.
 
Organic revenue growth, free cash flow, operating income before special items, operating margin before special items, income from continuing operations before special items and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items are all non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables.  Additional schedules can be found at
www.tyco.com
on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's website.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.  All comparisons are to the fiscal third quarter of 2007 unless otherwise indicated.
 
ADT Worldwide
 
 
Revenue increased 5% with organic revenue growth of 2%. Recurring revenue grew 5% organically and improved across all regions. Systems installation and service revenue declined 1% organically, mostly due to weakness in the retailer end market. This was partially offset by strong double-digit organic growth in other international markets.
 
Operating income was $239 million and the operating margin was 12.0%.  Special items consisted of $31 million of restructuring charges.  Operating income before special items was $270 million and the operating margin before special items was 13.5%.
 
Flow Control
 
 
Revenue increased 15% with organic revenue growth of 5.3% driven by continued strong growth in the Valves business which grew 10% organically and the Thermal Controls business which grew 15% organically.  In the Water business, organic revenue declined 7%, primarily due to reduced water pipeline project activity in Australia compared to the year ago quarter.
 
Operating income was $152 million and the operating margin was 13.4%.  Operating income before special items increased 23% to $155 million and the operating margin before special items was 13.7%.  The increase in the operating income and the operating margin before special items was due to higher revenue and improved productivity.
 
Fire Protection Services
 
 
Revenue increased 8% with organic revenue growth of 4%.  The North American SimplexGrinnell business grew 8% organically while the international fire businesses declined slightly due to the planned exit of certain non-core activities in Latin America and Asia.
 
Operating income was $97 million and the operating margin was 10.6%.  The operating margin before special items increased 220 basis points mostly due to solid margin improvement in SimplexGrinnell related to higher revenue and better productivity.  The international fire businesses also contributed to the operating margin improvement due to better productivity and increased service mix.
 
Electrical and Metal Products
 
 
Revenue increased 26% with organic revenue growth of 23%.  The increase in revenue was mostly driven by better pricing for steel tubular products.
 
Operating income was $141 million and the operating margin was 21.6%.  Operating income before special items of $146 million improved primarily due to better metal spreads and continued improvement in manufacturing efficiencies.
 
Safety Products
 
 
Revenue increased 16% with organic revenue growth of 11% driven primarily by strength in the fire suppression and life safety businesses.
 
Operating income was $79 million and the operating margin was 15.5%.  Operating income before special items increased 14% to $91 million and the operating margin before special items was 17.8%. The improvement in operating income before special items was primarily due to higher volume and improved productivity offset by increased investment in R&D and sales and marketing.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
                 
Cash from operating activities was $712 million and free cash flow was $446 million.  This included cash payments of $81 million primarily for restructuring and legacy litigation payments.
                 
The $330 million of pre-tax charges for special items ($0.47 per share) consisted primarily of $275 million for separation-related activities including the early retirement of debt and $53 million for restructuring activities.
                 
Corporate expense was $131 million in the quarter and included a net charge of $4 million for special items.
                 
Net interest expense of $75 million included $17 million of separation-related expenses.
                 
The GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 18.4% and was positively impacted by 6.8 percentage points related to the tax treatment of special items.
 
 
                 
The company announced a new $1 billion share repurchase program on July 10, 2008.  A previous $1 billion program announced in September 2007 concluded earlier this month.  The company repurchased 24.3 million shares under that program, representing approximately 5% of total shares outstanding.
                 
Diluted
EPS from discontinued operations of $0.57 per share in the third quarter consisted primarily of gains from the sale of a Brazilian subsidiary of the Infrastructure Services Business and Ancon Building Products.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2007 annual revenues of more than $18 billion and 118,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Management will discuss the company's third quarter results and outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter during a conference call and webcast for investors today beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET.  Today's conference call can be accessed in the following ways:
 
                 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com.
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (888) 455-5685.  The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (773) 799-3896.  The passcode for the call is TYCO.
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. on July 31, 2008 and ending at 10:59 p.m. on August 7, 2008. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 570-8795. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (402) 220-2264.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic revenue growth," "free cash flow" (FCF), "operating income before special items", "earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations before special items" and "operating margin before special items" are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
Organic revenue growth is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business. The difference between reported net revenue growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications and changes to the fiscal year). Organic revenue growth is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity. It may be used as a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue. This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue growth in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue growth.
 
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation. The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows that the company believes are useful to identify. FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It, or a measure that is based on it, may be used as a significant component in the company's incentive compensation plans. The difference reflects the impact from:
 
     
the sale of accounts receivable programs,
     
net capital expenditures,
     
accounts purchased from ADT dealer network,
     
cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities, and
     
voluntary pension contributions.
 
The impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs and voluntary pension contributions are added or subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity. Capital expenditures and the ADT dealer program are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted from Cash Flow from Operating Activities because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure. This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures. Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period. See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
The company has presented its operating income from continuing operations, operating income and operating margin before special items and EPS from continuing operations before special items, and forecast its EPS from continuing operations before special items. Special Items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Tyco Healthcare into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable. The company utilizes income from continuing operations, EPS and operating income and margin, in each case before special items to assess overall operating performance, segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions. They may be used as significant components in the company's incentive compensation plans. Operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations before special items and EPS before special items are useful measures for investors because they permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods. EPS before special items does not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in income from continuing operations before special items. The difference between income from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items versus income from continuing operations, operating income and operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Tyco Healthcare into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends. The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported operating income from continuing operations, EPS and operating income and margin. This limitation is best addressed by using operating income and operating margin before special items in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
The company presents its EPS forecast before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results. Because the company often cannot predict the amount and timing of unusual or special items and associated charges or gains that may be recorded in the company's financial statements, it does not present forecasts that include the impact of those items. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of operating income before special items.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing the company's future financial condition and operating results, as well as its portfolio refinement activities. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements
 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 28, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 28, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 28, 2008.
 
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
NOTE: Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP measure. See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
Tyco International Ltd.
Earnings Per Share Summary
(Unaudited)
 
International Ltd.
Tyco
For the Quarter Ended June 27, 2008
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 


