FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20081008095634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On October 7, 2008, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Vue Technology, Inc. for approximately $43 million.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE:TYC; BSX:TYC) today announced the acquisition of Vue Technology, Inc., a leading provider of radio frequency identification (RFID) technology, for approximately $43 million in a move to strengthen the technology portfolio offered to retailers through its Sensormatic business.  Privately-held Vue Technology's item-level RFID technology provides retailers with greater inventory visibility and accuracy by tracking individual items throughout the supply chain from manufacturing facilities to retail locations.
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  October 07, 2008
 
"The acquisition of Vue Technology marks the next phase of Sensormatic's strategy for providing layered technology at the retail selling floor," said Scott Clements, Vice President of Sensormatic Solutions.  "The complimentary products, software and services offered by Vue Technology will provide Sensormatic and ADT the most comprehensive solution set to maximize retail store operations."
 
"For the past six years, Vue Technology has focused on providing retailers with scalable, reliable and ROI-driven RFID solutions," said Robert Locke, Chief Executive Officer of Vue Technology.  "By bridging the gap between the sales floor and the stockroom, this transaction will help to accelerate the adoption of RFID technology to more efficiently manage in-store operations and enhance the overall customer shopping experience."
Sensormatic, part of Tyco International, is the industry leading provider of retail loss prevention solutions.  The Sensormatic solutions portfolio is sold through ADT and Tyco partners around the world.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2007 revenue of more than $18 billion and has 110,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
ABOUT VUE TECHNOLOGY
 
Privately-held Vue Technology is the leading provider of item-level RFID solutions, offering breakthrough RFID infrastructure components and a powerful software suite that delivers the most scalable, reliable, and ROI-driven RFID solutions on the market. Vue's TrueVUE RFID Platform provides the industry's only unified RFID infrastructure that allows customers to manage dock doors, portals, mobile devices, smart surfaces and smart shelves to achieve RFID visibility down to the item-level.
 


