FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20080205060254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 5, 2008
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
(Commission File Number)
 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices, including Zip Code)
 
(Registrant's Telephone Number, including Area Code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
                On February 5, 2008, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's first quarter results for fiscal 2008.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
                (c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
TYCO INTERNATIONAL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF $0.73 PER SHARE BEFORE SPECIAL ITEMS AND GAAP EARNINGS OF $0.74 PER SHARE
 
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
 
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  February 5, 2008  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC; BSX: TYC) today reported $0.74 in diluted GAAP earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations and diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.73 before special items for the fiscal first quarter of 2008.  Diluted GAAP EPS from continuing operations was positively impacted by special items which totaled $0.01 per share.  Diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items
 
 
 
increased 49% in the quarter.  Revenue in the quarter increased 12% versus the prior year to $4.9 billion, with organic revenue growth of 6%.
 
The company's operating margin in the quarter was 10.2% and the operating margin before special items was 10.7% driven by higher revenue and better productivity.  The GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 24.8% and was adversely impacted by 1.3 percentage points due to special items.
 
Special items increased EPS by $0.01 per share in the quarter and consisted of the following: $0.08 per share of income for separation-related items, partially offset by charges of $0.03 per share for restructuring activities and $0.04 per share for certain tax items.
 
On January 23, the company raised its full year guidance for fiscal 2008 diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items from $2.50 - $2.65 to $2.60 - $2.70.  Management will discuss the company's outlook for the fiscal second quarter during a conference call and webcast today beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST.
 
"Our first quarter results exceeded our previous guidance with improved operating performance in each of our businesses," said Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen.  "This performance, combined with the progress we are making on our key initiatives, puts us on track for a solid year in 2008."
 
Organic revenue growth, free cash flow, operating income before special items, operating margin before special items, income from continuing operations before special items and EPS from continuing operations before special items are all non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables.  Additional schedules can be found at
www.tyco.com
on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's Website.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.  All comparisons are to the fiscal first quarter of 2007 unless otherwise indicated.
 
 
 
 
 
ADT Worldwide
 
 
Revenue increased 7% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 3.4% led by double digit growth in Asia and Latin America.  North America grew 2% organically and the Europe, Middle East and Africa region grew 1% organically.
 
Operating income was $249 million in the quarter and the operating margin was 12.5%.  Special items in the quarter consisted of $7 million of restructuring charges incurred primarily in Europe.  Operating income before special items increased 10% to $256 million and included expenses of $24 million to convert certain North American customers to digital services in advance of the analog-to-digital transition for wireless phone services. The operating margin before special items improved to 12.8%.
 
Flow Control
 
 
Revenue in Flow Control increased 29% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 17.7% driven by strong double digit growth across industrial valves, water and thermal controls. Revenue growth continues to benefit from strong demand in key end markets  particularly energy and water.
 
Operating income was $171 million and the operating margin was 15.9%. Special items in the quarter consisted of $2 million of restructuring charges. Operating income before special items
 
increased 53% to $173 million. The increase in operating income and the operating margin was due to higher revenue and improved productivity.
 
Fire Protection Services
 
 
Revenue in the Fire Protection Services segment increased 5% driven by foreign exchange. Organic revenue growth in the North American SimplexGrinnell business was 3.6% while the international fire businesses declined 5% organically primarily due to the planned exit of certain non-core international businesses.
 
Operating income increased 22% to $72 million and the operating margin increased 120 basis points to 8.7% led primarily by North America with a modest improvement in the international fire businesses.
 
Electrical and Metal Products
 
 
Revenue in Electrical and Metal Products increased 10% in the quarter with better volume and pricing for steel tubular products partially offset by lower copper spreads.  Organic revenue growth was 7.4%.
 
Operating income was $41 million and included $4 million of restructuring charges. Operating income before special items of $45 million improved primarily due to higher volume.
 
 
Safety Products
 
 
Revenue in the Safety Products segment increased 10% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 4.7% driven by the fire suppression and electronic security businesses.
 
Operating income was $86 million and the operating margin was 19.2%.   Operating income before special items was $87 million and the operating margin before special items was 19.5%.  All three lines of business  fire suppression, electronic security and life safety  contributed to the increase in operating income before special items, primarily led by higher volume in fire suppression.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
                 
Net cash used in operating activities was $152 million in the quarter.  The company had a free cash outflow of $407 million, which included $53 million of payments for separation and restructuring activities.
 
                 
Corporate expenses were $126 million and included $10 million of separation expense. Revenue in Corporate and Other was $31 million and operating income from business operations was $6 million.
 
                 
Other income includes $50 million of income related to the Tax Sharing Agreement entered into as part of the separation and recorded in connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48.
 
 
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2007 revenue of more than $18 billion and has 118,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Today's conference call for investors can be accessed in the following ways:
 
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic revenue growth," "free cash flow (outflow)" (FCF), "income from continuing operations before special items", "operating income before special items", "operating margin before special items"
, and
"earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations before special items" are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
Organic revenue growth is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business.  The difference between reported net revenue growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications and changes to the fiscal year).  Organic revenue growth is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that:  i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.  It may be used as a component of the
 
 
company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue.  This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue growth in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue growth.
 
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows that the company believes are useful to identify.  FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It may also be a significant component in the company's incentive compensation plans.  The difference reflects the impact from:
 
 
The impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs and voluntary pension contributions is added or subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.  Capital expenditures and the ADT dealer program are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted from Cash Flow from Operating Activities because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and that therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure.  This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures.  Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period.  See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
The company has presented income from continuing operations before special items, operating income and margin before special items and EPS from continuing operations before special items, and forecast its EPS from continuing operations before special items.  Special Items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Covidien into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable.  The company utilizes income from continuing operations, EPS and operating income and margin before special items to assess overall operating performance, segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating
 
 
 
plan execution and underlying market conditions.  There may also be significant components in the company's incentive compensation plans. Operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations before special items and EPS before special items are useful measures for investors because they permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods.  EPS before special items does not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in income from continuing operations before special items.  The difference between income from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items versus income from continuing operations, operating income and operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings (including transaction costs related to the separations of Tyco Electronics and Covidien into separate public companies), and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported income from continuing operations, EPS and operating income and margin. This limitation is best addressed by using income from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
The company presents its EPS forecast before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  Because the company often cannot predict the amount and timing of unusual or special items and associated charges or gains that may be recorded in the company's financial statements, it does not present forecasts that include the impact of those items.  See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of operating income before special items.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing future financial condition and operating results. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP measure. See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
Tyco International Ltd.
Earnings Per Share Summary
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended December 28, 2007
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 


