FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20090730070115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02
                                            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 30, 2009, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
TYCO INTERNATIONAL REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS  FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE SPECIAL ITEMS OF $0.58 PER SHARE AND GAAP EARNINGS OF $0.51 PER SHARE
 
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland
July 30, 2009  Tyco International Ltd.
(NYSE: TYC) today reported $0.51 in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the fiscal third quarter of 2009 and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items of $0.58 per share.  Revenue in the quarter of $4.2 billion declined 19% versus the prior year.  Organic revenue declined 12%, with approximately five percentage points of the decline coming from the Electrical and Metal Products business.
 
"Our third-quarter results reflect the good progress we are making in reducing our cost structure in this challenging environment," said Tyco Chairman and CEO Ed Breen. "Our service business, including our recurring revenue, represented 40% of total revenue and continues to grow organically, providing us with steady and predictable revenue.  With our strong balance sheet and cash flow performance, we continue to invest in our businesses for long-term growth."
 
Organic revenue, free cash flow, operating income before special items, operating margin before special items and income and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items are non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables.  Additional schedules as well as Third Quarter Review slides can be found at
www.tyco.com
on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's website.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated.  Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, certain businesses within the ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection Services segments were realigned, resulting in changes to historical segment performance.  The revenue and operating income results shown below have been adjusted to reflect these changes.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.  All comparisons are to the fiscal third quarter of 2008 unless otherwise indicated.
 
ADT Worldwide
 
 
Revenue of $1.7 billion declined 10% due to changes in foreign currency rates and an organic revenue decline of 5%.  Recurring revenue grew 4% organically with growth in all geographic regions.  Systems installation and service revenue declined 15% organically mostly due to weakness in North America and Europe as a result of continuing lower sales to commercial customers.
 
Operating income was $233 million and the operating margin was 13.5%.  Special items of $12 million resulted from restructuring activities.  Operating income before special items of $245 million decreased $22 million, which included a $12 million negative foreign currency impact.  The operating margin before special items improved 30 basis points to 14.2%.
 
Flow Control
 
 
Revenue of $954 million declined 16% primarily due to changes in foreign currency rates with an organic revenue decline of 5%.  The Valves business grew 2% organically, which was offset by a 13% organic revenue decline in Water and a 14% organic revenue decline in the Thermal Controls business.  Backlog of $1.6 billion decreased 4% (9% excluding currency) on a quarter sequential basis.
 
Operating income was $122 million and the operating margin was 12.8%.   Special items of $9 million resulted from restructuring activities.  Operating income before special items of $131 million decreased $24 million, which included a $20 million negative foreign currency impact.  The operating margin before special items was 13.7%.
 
Fire Protection Services
 
 
Revenue of $856 million declined 14% primarily due to changes in foreign currency rates with an organic revenue decline of 5%.  Service revenue declined 2% organically.  Installation revenue declined 7% organically, driven by continued softness in the North America and EMEA regions. 
 
Backlog of $1.2 billion increased 1% (a 2% decline excluding currency) on a quarter sequential basis.
 
Operating income was $67 million and the operating margin was 7.8%.  Special items of $3 million resulted from restructuring activities.  Operating income before special items of $70 million decreased $30 million primarily due to lower volume and a $4 million negative foreign currency impact.  The operating margin before special items was 8.2%.
 
Electrical and Metal Products
 
 
Revenue of $320 million declined 51% with an organic revenue decline of 47%.   The decline was due to continued weak demand in end markets and significantly lower year over year steel prices. Volume declined 40% for steel products and 27% for copper products.
 
Electrical and Metal Products incurred an operating loss of $17 million.  Special items of $10 million included $7 million from restructuring activities and a $3 million divestiture loss.  The operating loss before special items of $7 million was due to the impact of lower volume and lower steel spreads.
 
Safety Products
 
 
Revenue of $380 million declined 26% with an organic revenue decline of 19% due to lower volume across the Fire Suppression, Electronic Security and Life Safety businesses. These businesses experienced weaker demand in end markets as well as lower distributor inventory levels.  Changes in foreign currency also negatively impacted results.
 
Operating income was $34 million and the operating margin was 8.9%.  Special items of $11 million resulted from restructuring activities.  Operating income before special items of $45 million decreased 51%, primarily due to lower volume.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
                 
The GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 11.3% and the tax rate excluding special items was 13.4%.
                 
Corporate and Other expense was $100 million and included special items of $2 million from restructuring activities.
                 
The company incurred pre-tax charges totaling $44 million in the quarter which resulted from restructuring activities.
                 
Cash flow from operating activities was $662 million in the quarter.  The company had free cash flow of $367 million, which included cash payments of $102 million for restructuring and legacy legal matters.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2008 revenue of more than $20 billion and has approximately 110,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Management will discuss the company's third quarter results for 2009 and outlook for the fourth quarter during a conference call and webcast today beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT.  Today's conference call for investors can be accessed in the following ways:
 
                 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com.
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 779-1532.  The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (773) 799-3896.  The participant code is TYCO.
 
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. on July 30, 2009 and ending on August 7, 2009. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (866) 395-9163. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (203) 369-0499.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic revenue," "free cash flow (outflow)" (FCF), "income from continuing operations before special items", "earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations before special items",  "operating income before special items" and "operating margin before special items" are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
Organic revenue is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business. The difference between reported net revenue (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications and changes to the fiscal year). Organic revenue is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying results of the company's existing businesses, such as acquisitions and divestitures. It may be used as a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue. This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue.
 
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation. The difference between Cash Flows from Operating Activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows that the company believes are useful to identify. FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It, or a measure that is based on it, may be used as a component in the company's incentive compensation plans. The difference reflects the impact from:
 
net capital expenditures,
accounts purchased from ADT dealer network,
cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities,
voluntary pension contributions, and
the sale of accounts receivable programs.
 
Capital expenditures and the ADT dealer program are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted from Cash Flow from Operating Activities because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses. Voluntary pension contributions and the impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs are added or subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and therefore may imply that there is less
 
or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure. This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures. Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period. See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
The company has presented its income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items. Special Items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings, impairments, legacy legal and tax charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable. The company utilizes income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items to assess overall operating performance and segment level core operating performance, as well as to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions. They may be used as significant components in the company's incentive compensation plans. Operating income, operating margin, and income and EPS from continuing operations before special items are useful measures for investors because they permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods. The difference between income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and income and EPS from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings, impairments, legacy legal and tax charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends. Operating income and margin before special items do not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in income from continuing operations before special items.  The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported operating income and margin and operating income and EPS from continuing operations. This limitation is best addressed by using the non-GAAP measures in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein and in accompanying conference calls or webcasts that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release and accompanying conference calls generally include, but are not limited to, statements addressing Tyco's future financial condition and operating results, as well as its portfolio refinement activities. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are
 
examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 26, 2008 and in the interim reports filed on Form 10-Q for subsequent quarterly periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2009. 
:
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
NOTE: Organic revenue is a non-GAAP measure. See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
Tyco International Ltd.
Earnings Per Share Summary
(Unaudited)
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended June 26, 2009
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended June 27, 2008
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 


