FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20090317080452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
ITEM 3.03             MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS TO RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
Effective March 17, 2009, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") discontinued its existence as a Bermuda corporation as provided in Section 132G of The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and, according to article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law, continued its existence under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Federal Code on Obligations as a Swiss corporation.  The rights of holders of the Company's common shares are now governed by the Company's Swiss articles of association and Swiss organizational regulations, each of which are described in the Company's registration statement on Form S-4/A (the "Form S-4"), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 16, 2009.  The sections of the Form S-4 entitled "Description of Swiss Shares," "Comparison of Shareholder Rights," "Effects of the Change of Domicile" and "Material Tax Considerations" are hereby incorporated by reference.  The Swiss articles of association and the Swiss organizational regulations became effective March 17, 2009, are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.  The Company's Swiss articles of association contain the numbers that were intentionally left blank in the Form S-4 and which were calculated based on the number of common shares issued and outstanding, the determination of the new par value in Swiss francs and the aggregate par value adjustment, as further described in the Form S-4.
 
ITEM 5.03             AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS, CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
 
The information included in Item 3.03 above is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 7.01             REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Upon the effectiveness of the continuance in Switzerland, the Company's CUSIP number changed to H89128104.
 
ITEM 8.01             OTHER EVENTS
 
On March 12, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the results of its Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and Special General Meeting of Shareholders, each held on March 12, 2009.  On the same date, the Company issued a press release related to the  shareholder-approved annual dividend of CHF 0.93 per share to be paid in four quarterly installments in the form of a capital reduction.  Copies of the press releases are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
ITEM 9.01             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
Annex B: Organizational Regulations
 
 
 
 
A.
SCOPE AND BASIS
                                   
 
These Organizational Regulations ("Organizational Regulations") are enacted by the board of directors ("board") of Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco" or "company") pursuant to article 716b of the Swiss Code of Obligations ("CO") and Article 23 of the company's articles of association ("Articles of Association"). The Organizational Regulations govern the corporate governance, internal organization and the duties, powers and responsibilities of the executive bodies of the company and the group. For the purposes of these Organizational Regulations, the group shall mean the company and its subsidiaries, whereby subsidiaries means all companies in which the company holds directly or indirectly a majority of the voting rights or has the right to appoint a majority of the members of the supreme body of such company.
1
                                         
 
B.
EXECUTIVE BODIES OF THE COMPANY
                                   
 
The executive bodies of the company are:
2
                                         
 
 
C.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                   
 
  The board shall elect a chairman and a lead director from amongst its members. The chairman or any board member may also be appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (such person then called "delegate of the board" or "delegate"). The board shall further appoint a secretary who does not need to be a director.
3
Constitution.
                                         
 
  The board is entrusted with the ultimate management of the company, the overall supervision of the group as well as with the supervision and control of management. The board is the ultimate executive body of the company and shall determine the principles of the business strategy and policies. The board shall exercise its function as required by law, the Articles of Association and these Organizational Regulations. The board shall be authorized to pass resolutions on all matters that are not reserved to the general meeting of shareholders or to other executive bodies by applicable law, the Articles of Association or these Organizational Regulations.
4
Powers and Duties General.
                                         
 
  The board has in particular the following (non-transferable) duties and competences with regard to the company and the group:
5
Powers and Duties (Non-Transferable).
                                         
 
 
 
  The board has the following further powers and responsibilities regarding the board:
6
Powers and Duties in Board Matters (Transferable).
                                         
 
 
  The board has the following further powers and responsibilities regarding operational matters:
7
Powers and Duties in Operational Matters (Transferable).
                                         
 
 
  The board of directors delegates the management of the company and the group to the Chief Executive Officer and the other members of the executive management as provided for by these Organizational Regulations. The board requires that senior management review major actions and initiatives with the board prior to implementation
8
Delegation of Management.
                                         
 
  The secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the board and give notice of such meetings and shall perform like duties for the committees of the board when so required. In the event of the secretary's absence or inability to act of the secretary, any other person designated by the chairman or lead director may act in the secretary's place.
9
Secretary.
                                         
 
  A calendar of regular agenda items for the six regularly scheduled board meetings and all regularly scheduled committee meetings is prepared annually, by the chairman in consultation with the lead director, Committee Chairs, and all interested directors. The lead director, in consultation with the chairman, is responsible for setting meeting agendas with input from the directors. Directors receive the agenda and materials for regularly scheduled meetings in advance. Best efforts will be made to make materials available one week in advance, in any event no later
10
Agenda.
                                   
than three days in advance. When practical, the same applies to special meetings of the board. Directors may ask for additional information from, or meet with, senior managers at any time.
 
  The board meets at least six times annually, and additional meetings may be called in accordance with the corporation's bye-laws. Frequent board meetings are critical not only for timely decisions but also for directors to be well informed about company operations and issues. One of these meetings will be scheduled in conjunction with the company's annual general meeting and board members are required to be in attendance at the annual general meeting in person or exceptionally, by telephone. Meetings shall be convened by the secretary or the chairman or, in their absence, by the lead director and in his/her absence by any another director. Any director and the CEO may request that the chairman convene a meeting as soon as practicable, subject to providing a reason for so requesting a meeting. Notice of any meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, facsimile, e-mail or any other electronic means on not less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate and which is reasonable in the circumstances. Items on the agenda shall be set forth in such notice. Any director may waive any notice required to be given by law or these Organizational Regulations, and the attendance of a director at a meeting shall be deemed to be a waiver by such director of notice of such meeting. Unless all directors agree, only business indicated on the agenda may be transacted at any meeting. Furthermore, these formal requirements do not have to be observed, if a meeting is only convened in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions approving related amendments of the Articles of Association and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
11
Calling of Meetings.
                                   
 
  Strategic planning and succession planning sessions are held annually at a regular board meeting. The succession-planning meeting focuses on the development and succession of not only the chief executive but also the other senior executives.
12
Planning Sessions.
                                   
 
  An executive session of independent non-executive directors, chaired by the lead director, is held at each formal meeting of the board.
13
Executive Session.
                                   
 
  The chairman, or in his/her absence, a lead director or, in their absence, another director, shall chair the meetings.
14
Chairing of Meetings.
                                   
 
  At board meetings, each director shall be entitled to submit proposals regarding the items on the agenda. This right may also be executed by way of correspondence.
15
Proposals.
                                   
 
  A quorum of the board shall be constituted when a majority of the directors are present in person or participate using some alternative means of instant communication, provided that at any meeting duly called, whether or not a quorum is present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn such meeting from time to time and place to place without notice other than by announcement by the chairman of the meeting. At such meeting of the board at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the directors present. A quorum of the board shall not be required in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association entailed therewith and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
16
Quorum.
                                   
 
  The board shall pass its resolutions with the relative majority of the votes cast whereby abstentions shall be disregarded for purposes of establishing the majority. In case of a tie of votes, the chairman shall not have the casting vote. Directors may not be represented.
17
Majority Vote.
                                   
 
  Board resolutions may also be passed by means of written resolutions (circular resolutions), in writing, by facsimile or by a signed copy sent by e-mail, provided that no director requests, either by phone, facsimile or similar means, deliberation in a meeting, within 5
18
Circular Resolutions.
                                   
(five) calendar days after hearing of the proposed resolution. Board resolutions by means of written resolutions require the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the directors.
 
  Board meetings may be held and resolutions may be passed by means of a telephone or video conference or similar means of instant communication provided that (i) all directors interested to participate can be reached by such means and (ii) no director, when contacted for such conference, requests deliberation in a physical meeting.
19
Non-Physical Meetings.
                                   
 
  All resolutions shall be recorded. The minutes shall be signed by the chairman and the person keeping the minutes and must be approved by the board.
20
Minutes.
                                   
 
  At every meeting the delegate shall inform the board of directors on the current course of business and on important business developments of the company and the group. The board of directors shall be informed promptly of any extraordinary business development. If necessary, members of the executive management may be invited to attend board meetings. Directors shall be informed of extraordinary occurrences immediately by way of circulating letter, or, if necessary, also by telephone, facsimile or e-mail.
21
Reporting.
                                   
 
  Each director is entitled to request information from the chairman on all company and group matters. Each director is also entitled to access to business documents in the intervals between board meetings. Such requests shall be addressed in writing to the chairman of the board. Directors also have complete and open access to the Chief Executive Officer, the chief financial officer and the general counsel. To the extent necessary to fulfill his/her duties, each director may request from the chairman authorization to review books and records of the company. If the chairman rejects the director's request for information, for a hearing or for an inspection, then the board shall decide on such request.
22
Right to Request Information and Access.
                                   
 
  Each director shall be entitled to receive as compensation for such director's services as a director or committee member or for attendance at meetings of the board or committees, or both, such amounts (if any) as shall be fixed from time to time by the board upon proposal of the Nominating and Governance Committee. Each director shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable traveling expenses incurred by such director in attending any such meeting.
23
Compensation.
                                   
 
 
  Subject to any applicable law or regulation to the contrary, a director or officer (i) may be a party to or otherwise interested in any contract, transaction or other arrangement with the group, or in which the group is otherwise interested, and (ii) may be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any contract, transaction or other arrangement with, or otherwise interested in, any company or other person promoted by the group
24
Conflicts of Interest.
                                   
or in which the group is interested, subject to declaring this interest and the approval and/or authorization of a majority of the disinterested directors of such contract, transaction or other arrangement.
 
 
D.
THE CHAIRMAN
                                   
 
  The chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings of the board. Further, the chairman has the following powers and duties:
25
Power and Duties.
                                   
 
 
  Should the chairman be unable or unavailable to exercise his functions, his functions shall be assumed by the lead director, if one has been elected, or if the latter has not been elected or should be unable or unavailable, another director appointed by the board.
26
Authority.
                                   
 
E.
LEAD DIRECTOR
                                     
 
The board shall appoint a lead director, who shall have the following responsibilities, together with such others as the board might from time to time specify:
27
                                   
 
 
  The lead director may convene a "special committee" to review certain material matters being considered by the board. The special committee will report to their activities to the board.
28
Special Committee.
                                   
 
F.
BOARD COMMITTEES
                                     
 
  The board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors, as designated by the board. The board may designate one or more alternate directors as members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another director to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent member. At all meetings of any committee, a majority of its members (or one member, if only one) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the members present shall be the act of any such committee, unless otherwise specifically provided by law, the Articles of Association or these Organizational Regulations. The board shall have the power at any time to change the number and members of any such committee, to fill vacancies and to discharge any such committee.
29
General.
                                   
 
  Section 10, 11 and 14 to 20 above with respect to procedural matters shall apply also to meetings of committees, unless different provisions shall be prescribed by the board. Each Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the board. It shall keep minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board when required and shall observe such procedures as are prescribed by the board. Committee meetings are normally held in conjunction with board meetings. All board members are welcome to attend any committee meeting.
30
Governing Procedural Rules.
                                   
 
  The standing committees of the board shall be the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Governance Committee and any other committees designated by the board. Assignments to, and chairs of, the Audit and Compensation Committee are recommended by the Nominating and Governance Committee and selected by the board. The independent directors as a group elect the members and the chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee. All committees report on their activities to the board.
31
Individual Committees.
                                   
G.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                   
 
  Subject to applicable law, regulations and stock exchange rules, the day-to-day executive management of the company shall be the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer (or delegate in case the CEO is simultaneously a director). The Chief Executive Officer shall have the primary responsibility for the executive management of the company, and shall directly report to the board. In particular, the CEO shall have the following powers and responsibilities, to:
32
Powers and Duties.
                                   
 
 
  The Chief Executive Officer shall regularly inform the board at the board meetings on the current course of business and all major business matters of the company.
33
Reporting.
                                   
 
H.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT  OFFICERS
                                   
 
  The officers of the company shall be elected by the board and shall include the Chief Executive Officer, a President and one or more Vice Presidents (who may be further classified by such descriptions as "Executive," "Senior" or "Assistant" as determined by the board), Treasurer, Controller and such other officers, as the board may deem necessary or appropriate.
34
Composition.
                                   
 
  The executive management shall manage the operations of the company and the overall business of the group and shall control all employees of the company. In particular, the executive management shall exercise the following duties and competences:
35
Powers and Duties.
                                   
 
 
  The President shall be appointed by the directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the board may assign.
36
President.
                                   
 
  Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the board or determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
37
Vice-Presidents.
                                   
  The Treasurer shall have the oversight and control of the funds of the company and shall have the power and authority to make and endorse notes, drafts and checks and other obligations necessary for the transaction of the business of the company except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Association.
38
Treasurer.
                                   
 
  The Controller shall have the oversight and control of the accounting records of the company and shall prepare such accounting reports and recommendations as shall be appropriate for the operation of the company.
39
Controller.
                                   
 
  The board may from time to time authorize any officer to appoint and remove any other officer or agent and to prescribe such person's authority and duties. Any person may hold at one time two or more offices. Each officer shall have such authority and perform such duties, in addition to those specified in the Articles of Association, as may be prescribed by the board from time to time.
40
Substituting Officers.
                                   
 
  Each officer shall hold office for the term for which appointed by the board, and until the person's successor has been appointed and qualified or until such person's earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may be removed by the board, with or without cause. The election or appointment of an officer shall not in and of itself create contractual rights against the company. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the board or the secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if such time is not specified therein, then upon receipt of such notice, and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
41
Term of Office.
                                   
 
I.
INDEMNIFICATION
                                        
 
The company shall indemnify, in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, an action by or in the right of the company), by reason of his acting as a director, officer, employee or agent of, or his acting in any other capacity for or on behalf of, the company, against any liability or expense actually and reasonably incurred by such person in respect thereof. The company may advance the expenses of defending any such act, suit or proceeding in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law. Such indemnification and advancement of expenses are not exclusive of any other right to indemnification or advancement of expenses provided by law or otherwise.
42
                                   
 
The board may authorize the company to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the company, or is or was serving at the request of the company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or in a fiduciary or other capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan maintained by the company, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Section H.
43
                                   
 
J.
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS
                                     
 
The board understands that its members, or their immediate family members, serve as directors, trustees, executives, advisors, and in other capacities with a host of other organizations. If Tyco directs a charitable donation to an organization in which a Tyco director, or their immediate family member, serves as a director, trustee, executive, advisor, or in other Leadership capacities with the organization, the board must approve the donation. Any such donation approved by the board will be limited to an amount that is less than one percent of that organization's annual charitable
44
                                   
receipts, and less than one percent of Tyco's total annual charitable contributions. Furthermore, charitable donations by the company to organizations associated with a director are limited to matching donations in an amount no greater than the amount contributed by the director, and consistent with Tyco's employee matching gift program. Any commercial and charitable relations of Tyco with the directors' outside organizations are publicly reported, consistent with the regulatory requirements.
 
K.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
                                   
 
  The directors, officers and other persons authorized to represent the company and its subsidiaries shall have single or joint signatory power, as determined appropriate by the board.
45
Signatory Power.
                                   
 
  Upon termination of the relationship with the company all business files must be returned with the exception of documents used by a director to follow up his/her own actions.
46
Returning of Files.
                                   
 
  The business year of the company starts on the last Saturday in September and ends on the last Friday in September.
47
Business Year.
                                   
 
L.
FINAL PROVISIONS
                                    
 
  These Organizational Regulations shall enter into force on the date of adoption by the board.
48
Entering into Force.
                                   
 
  These Organizational Regulations shall be reviewed and if necessary amended on a regular basis by the board. The Nominating and Governance Committee reviews the board's organization annually and recommends appropriate changes to the board.
49
Review and Amendments.
                                   

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
The transfer of above mentioned shares has to be made by endorsement on this certificate. Any transfer must be registered in the share register of the company. For the company the transfer is only valid if the board of directors agreed to it.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  March 12, 2009.  Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC)  announced today that its shareholders have approved all proposals presented during the company's Annual General Meeting and a subsequent Special General Meeting convened to consider the company's change in domicile from Bermuda to the canton of Schaffhausen, Switzerland.
 
During the Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved proposals to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the company's independent auditors, to amend the company's stock and incentive plan and to elect the company's Board of Directors to new one-year terms.
 
Shareholders elected a slate of 11 nominees consisting of 10 individuals who served on the Tyco Board in 2008 and a new nominee, R. David Yost.  Mr. Yost, 61, is President and Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen, a comprehensive pharmaceutical services provider.
 
During the Special General Meeting, shareholders approved the company's previously-announced change in domicile which is expected to become official next week following the completion of governmental filings both in Bermuda and Switzerland.
 
 
Following the change in domicile, Tyco will continue to be registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and to prepare its financial statements in U.S. dollars and in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The Company's common shares will continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "TYC".
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2007 revenue of more than $18 billion and has 118,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  March 12, 2009  The Board of Directors of Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) today declared a quarterly dividend of 0.23 Swiss Francs (CHF) per share, payable on May 27, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 30, 2009, subject to a required filing with the Swiss Commercial Register.
 
The dividend of CHF 0.23 per share is the first installment of an annual dividend of CHF 0.93 per share approved by shareholders in conjunction with today's approval of the company's change in domicile from Bermuda to Switzerland.  The CHF 0.93 annual dividend is the Swiss Franc equivalent (as of March 9, 2009) of Tyco's planned annual dividend of $0.80 per share for fiscal 2009.  The dividend will be paid in U.S. Dollars (USD) converted from Swiss Francs at the USD/CHF exchange rate in effect approximately one week prior to the payment date.  Because of potential currency translation movements, the USD amount shareholders will actually receive may be more or less than the amount stated above.  The dividend is paid from a reduction to share capital under Swiss law.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers in more than 60 countries. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2008 revenue of more than $20 billion and has 113,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 


