FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20110127070035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02
                                            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 27, 2011, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's first quarter results for fiscal 2011.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
                 
Company reports 5% revenue increase with organic revenue growth of 4%
                 
Diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items increases 17%
                 
Operating margin before special items improves 130 basis points to 11.3%
 
(Income and EPS amounts are attributable to Tyco common shareholders)
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland  January 27, 2011  Tyco International Ltd.
(NYSE: TYC) today reported $1.00 in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the fiscal first quarter of 2011 and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items of $0.75 per share.  Revenue in the quarter of $4.4 billion increased 5% versus the prior year with organic revenue growth of 4% including a 1 percentage point contribution from the Electrical & Metal Products business.
 
Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen said, "Our first quarter results reflect continued improvement in our end markets which contributed to a stronger operating margin and helped us deliver a 17% increase in diluted earnings per share. We finished the quarter in a strong cash position which provides us the financial flexibility to continue to increase investments in R&D, fund our growth initiatives, and return excess cash to shareholders."
 
Organic revenue, free cash flow and operating income, operating margin, income and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items are non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.  Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the company's organic growth / decline calculations incorporate an estimate of prior year reported revenue associated with the acquired entities that have been fully integrated within the first year, and exclude prior year revenues associated with entities divested within the past year.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables.  Additional schedules as well as First Quarter Review slides can be found at www.tyco.com on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's website.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated.  Effective in the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the company reorganized its reportable segments to more closely align with certain portfolio refinement actions taken in fiscal 2010.  Under the new reporting structure, the former Safety Products segment has been split between the former ADT Worldwide and former Fire Protection Services segments. The new Tyco Security Solutions segment consists of the former ADT Worldwide segment and the portion of the Safety Products segment that manufactures electronic security products. The new Tyco Fire Protection segment consists of the former Fire Protection Services segment and the remaining portion of the Safety Products segment consisting of the fire suppression and life safety businesses.  The revenue and operating income results shown below have been adjusted to reflect these changes.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.  All comparisons are to the fiscal first quarter of 2010 unless otherwise indicated.
 
Security Solutions
 
 
Revenue of $2.1 billion increased 10% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 6%.  Recurring revenue grew 4% organically on a global basis.  Non-recurring revenue grew 7% with growth in all geographic regions led by increased volume in the North American commercial business.
 
Operating income was $347 million and the operating margin was 16.5%. Operating income before special items was $352 million and the operating margin improved 240 basis points to 16.7%. Increased volume in the commercial business, growth in the higher margin recurring revenue business and the continued benefit of restructuring activities drove the year-over-year operating margin improvement.
 
Fire Protection
 
 
Revenue of $1.1 billion declined 1% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 1.5%. Organic revenue growth of 1% in service and 9% in fire products more than offset the organic revenue decline of 3% in installation revenue.  Backlog of $1.2 billion increased 1% on a quarter sequential basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency and the deconsolidation of a joint venture related to the adoption of a new accounting standard.
Operating income was $88 million and the operating margin was 8.0%.  Special items of $39 million consisted of restructuring and losses on divestitures.  Operating income before special items was $127 million and the operating margin was 11.6%. The 190 basis point margin improvement was driven by cost-containment and restructuring actions as well as business mix and selectivity of project work.
 
Flow Control
 
 
Revenue of $826 million declined 1% in the quarter with an organic revenue decline of 2%. Organic revenue growth of 8% in Thermal Controls was more than offset by an organic revenue decline of 5% in the Valves business and a 2% decline in Water. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, orders increased 7% year-over-year and backlog increased 3% to $1.5 billion on a quarter sequential basis.
 
Operating income was $100 million and the operating margin was 12.1%. Operating income includes a charge of $5 million on a project in a business retained from the 2008 divestiture of Earth Tech. The year-over-year impact of volume decline was almost fully offset by the benefits of cost-containment actions and previous restructuring activities.
 
Electrical and Metal Products
 
 
Revenue of $347 million increased 17% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 15%.  The revenue growth was driven by higher selling prices for both steel and copper products.
Operating income was $7 million and the operating margin was 2.0%.  Operating income before special items was $13 million and the operating margin was 3.7% as increased selling prices were more than offset by higher material costs.
 
On December 22, 2010, Tyco completed the sale of a majority interest in the Electrical and Metal Products business to an affiliate of Clayton, Dubilier and Rice, LLC.  Tyco received cash proceeds of $713 million and recorded a gain of $259 million reported in corporate and other.  The business now operates under the name Atkore International.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
                 
Cash from operating activities was $246 million and free cash flow was negative $63 million, which included a cash outflow of $35 million primarily related to restructuring activities. The company completed the quarter with $2.1 billion in cash.
                 
Corporate expense excluding special items was $97 million in the quarter.
                 
Special items of $0.25 consisted of a net gain on divestitures of $0.32 primarily related to the TEMP transaction, offset by net charges of $0.07 primarily related to restructuring.
                 
The company incurred pre-tax charges of $37 million in the quarter related to restructuring and integration activities.
                 
The tax rate for the quarter before special items was 17%.
                 
During the quarter and through January 26, 2011, the company has repurchased 19 million shares for $793 million under its current $1 billion share repurchase program initiated in the fourth quarter of 2010.
                 
On December 9, 2010, the company announced that its Board of Directors recommended shareholder approval of a dividend increase of approximately 20% from $0.84 to $1.00 per share at the company's annual general meeting of shareholders to be held on March 9, 2011.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers around the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products.  Tyco had 2010 revenue of $17 billion and has more than 100,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Management will discuss the company's first quarter results for 2011 and outlook for the second quarter during a conference call and webcast today beginning at 9:00 a.m. EST.  Today's conference call for investors can be accessed in the following ways:
 
                 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com.
 
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 857-9797. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (517) 308-9262, passcode "Tyco".
 
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on January 27, 2011 and ending at 11:59 p.m. (ET) on February 3, 2011. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 234-2079. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (402) 220-9687, passcode 5921.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic revenue," "free cash flow (outflow)" (FCF), "income from continuing operations before special items," "earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations before special items," "operating income before special items" and "operating margin before special items" are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
Organic revenue is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business. The difference between reported net revenue (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications). Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2011,
the Company's organic growth / decline calculations incorporate an estimate of prior year reported revenue associated with acquired entities that have been fully integrated within the first year (such as Broadview Security), and exclude prior year revenues associated with entities that do not meet the criteria for discontinued operations which have been divested within the past year.
The rate of organic growth or decline is calculated based on the adjusted number to better reflect the rate of growth or decline of the combined business, in the case of acquisitions, or the remaining business, in the case of dispositions.  The rate of organic growth or decline for acquired businesses that are not fully integrated within the first year will continue to be based on unadjusted historical revenue.  Organic revenue and the rate of organic growth or decline as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Organic revenue is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying results of the company's businesses, such as acquisitions and divestitures.  It may be used as a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the
 
company's revenue. This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue.
 
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation. The difference between Cash Flows from Operating Activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash flows that the company believes are useful to identify. FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It, or a measure that is based on it, may be used as a component in the company's incentive compensation plans. The difference reflects the impact from:
 
                 
net capital expenditures,
                 
accounts purchased by ADT,
                 
cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities, voluntary pension contributions, and
                 
the sale of accounts receivable programs.
 
Capital expenditures and accounts purchased by ADT are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses. Voluntary pension contributions and the impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs are added or subtracted because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it adjusts for cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure. This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures. Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period. See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
The company has presented its income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items. Special Items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings, impairments, legacy legal and tax charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable. The company utilizes income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and operating income and margin before special items to assess overall operating performance and segment level core operating performance, as well as to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions. They may be used as
 
components in the company's incentive compensation plans. Operating income, operating margin, and income and EPS from continuing operations before special items are useful measures for investors because they permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods. The difference between income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and income and EPS from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings, impairments, legacy legal and tax charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends. Operating income and margin before special items do not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in income from continuing operations before special items. The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported operating income and margin and operating income and EPS from continuing operations. This limitation is best addressed by using the non-GAAP measures in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
Tyco provides general corporate services to its segments and those costs are reported in the "Corporate and Other" segment. This segment's operating income (loss) is presented as "Corporate Expense."
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein and in accompanying conference calls or webcasts that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release and accompanying conference calls generally include, but are not limited to, statements addressing Tyco's future financial condition and operating results, as well as its acquisition, divestiture and capital activities. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 24, 2010 and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2010.
 
 
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
Earnings Per Share Summary
(Unaudited)
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended December 24, 2010
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended December 25, 2009
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                               
 


