FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20110223154843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
As previously disclosed, pursuant to a proposal included in Tyco International Ltd.'s (the "Company") proxy statement for its annual general meeting of shareholders held on March 10, 2010, shareholders approved a dividend in the form of a capital reduction equal to 0.90 Swiss francs (CHF) per share payable in four quarterly installments through the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2011. The fourth and final installment of the distribution, equal to CHF 0.23 per share, was paid to shareholder on or about February 23, 2011.  The US dollar amount of the dividend payment was $0.2365 per share, based on the USD/CHF exchange rate in effect on February 16, 2011 of 0.9725.
 
In connection with the payment of this distribution, the Company amended its Articles of Association to reflect the reduction in par value of CHF 0.23 per share, effective upon their filing with the commercial register of the Canton of Schaffhausen, Switzerland.  As a result, the par value of each share of the Company is now CHF 6.70.
 
A copy of the amended Articles of Association is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In addition, on February 23, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had agreed to acquire the Signature Security Group from Oceania Capital Partners Limited for AU $171 million.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Schaffhausen, Switzerland, February 23, 2011: Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) announced today that it has reached an agreement with Oceania Capital Partners Limited (ASX: OCP) to acquire OCP's Signature Security Group for AU $171 million. Tyco intends to combine Signature Security's Australian and New Zealand operations with its ADT Security business under the ADT name.
 
Signature Security is a leading provider of electronic security services in Australia and New Zealand, providing security installation and monitoring services to more than 90,000 premises with annualized revenue of approximately AU $80 million. ADT, part of Tyco's security solutions business, is the world's largest electronic security provider with approximately 9 million customers around the world and 2010 revenue of $7.7 billion.
 
"This acquisition provides us with the opportunity to strengthen ADT's business in the Australian and New Zealand security markets while advancing our strategy for growth in the global security industry," said Ed Breen, Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Signature Security is an excellent strategic fit with our ADT business, providing us with increased scale and attractive operating synergies."
 
According to Robert Zhu, President, ADT Asia-Pacific, both ADT and Signature are well managed businesses with strong operating platforms and a shared focus on providing outstanding customer service.
 
"Adding Signature Security to our portfolio means that we will be an even stronger partner for our customers as we leverage its experienced team of employees and geographic footprint.
This will enable us to broaden our sales, installation and service capabilities in the Australia and New Zealand markets."
 
The transaction is expected to close during the third quarter of Tyco's fiscal year, which quarter begins on April 1, 2011. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers around the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2010 revenue of $17 billion and has more than 100,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
ABOUT ADT SECURITY
 
With more than a century's worth of experience, ADT Security is the world's largest electronic security company, providing electronic security solutions to more than nine million residential, commercial and retail customers worldwide.  ADT Security's products include alarm systems and integrated security applications that link access control, CCTV, electronic article surveillance and source tagging systems.  www.adtsecurity.com.au
 
ABOUT SIGNATURE SECURITY
 
Signature Security Group, headquartered in Sydney, Australia, is one of the leading providers of security system installation and monitoring services for residential and commercial properties in Australia and New Zealand, servicing over 90,000 premises. For more information, please visit www.signaturesecurity.com.au
 


