FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20110919063248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
             
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
x
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
             
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
             
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
                                         
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
In connection with the approval by the Board of Directors of
Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco" or the "Company") on September 15, 2011 of a plan to pursue the separation of each of the Company's North American residential security business and Flow Control business into separate, publicly-traded companies as described in further detail under Item 8.01 below, Edward D. Breen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, notified the Board of Directors that he intends to resign from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective as of and conditional upon completion of the separation.
 
Item 8.01.
                                         
Other Events.
 
On September 19, 2011, Tyco issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has unanimously approved a plan to pursue the separation of each of the Company's North American residential security business and flow control business into separate, publicly-traded companies.  The plan would include: the continuation of Tyco as an independent, publicly-traded company focused on its commercial fire and security businesses and the spin-off to Tyco shareholders of the Company's North America residential security business and flow control business, each of which is intended to be tax-free to Tyco shareholders.  The spin-off transaction would be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the approval of Tyco shareholders.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Tyco's senior management is hosting a conference call for investors on September 19, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss the planned separation. A copy of the presentation materials to be used in connection with the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the planned separation, on September 19, 2011, Mr. Breen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, released a letter to Tyco's employees, and Naren Gursahaney, Patrick Decker and George Oliver, presidents of Tyco's security solutions segment, flow control segment and fire protection segment, respectively, each released a letter to the employees of their respective segments.  In addition, Tyco posted an employee Q&A regarding the proposed separation to its website. Copies of these letters and the Q&A are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6 and 99.7, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.  Tyco also sent to its suppliers and customers a letter regarding the proposed separation, the forms of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.8 and 99.9, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1
              
Press Release issued by Tyco International Ltd., dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.2
              
Investor Presentation, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.3
              
Employee Letter from Ed Breen, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.4
              
Employee Letter from Naren Gursahaney, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.5
              
Employee Letter from Patrick Decker, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.6
              
Employee Letter from George Oliver, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.7
              
Employee Q&A.
 
99.8
              
Form of Letter to Tyco Suppliers.
 
99.9
              
Form of Letter to Tyco Customers.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1
              
Press Release issued by Tyco International Ltd., dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.2
              
Investor Presentation, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.3
              
Employee Letter from Ed Breen, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.4
              
Employee Letter from Naren Gursahaney, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.5
              
Employee Letter from Patrick Decker, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.6
              
Employee Letter from George Oliver, dated September 19, 2011.
 
99.7
              
Employee Q&A.
 
99.8
              
Form of Letter to Tyco Suppliers.
 
99.9
              
Form of Letter to Tyco Customers.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland
 September 19, 2011
 Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) announced today that its Board of Directors has unanimously approved a plan to separate the company into three independent, publicly traded companies.
 
The three companies created through the separation will consist of:
 
                 
the ADT North America residential security business, North America's leading provider of security for homes and small businesses;
                 
the world's leading provider of flow control products and services; and
                 
the world's leading commercial fire and security business.
 
"Over the last four years, we have strengthened our competitive position in our core security, fire and flow control businesses by driving organic growth, investing in R&D and technology, increasing efficiency and productivity and making strategic acquisitions," said Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen. "Today, each business is in a strong financial position and has exceptional brands, highly skilled employees and talented, experienced leadership."
 
"In carefully evaluating the opportunities for these businesses and for Tyco as a whole, the Tyco Board of Directors concluded that creating three independent, public companies is the next logical step for Tyco," said Breen. "All three companies will have industry-leading positions in large and fragmented industries and enhanced capabilities to serve their distinct customers. Importantly, the new standalone companies will have greater flexibility to pursue their own focused strategies for growth  both organic and through acquisitions  than they would under Tyco's current corporate structure. This will allow all three companies to create significant value for shareholders."
 
The company intends to accomplish the separation by issuing tax-free stock dividends of the ADT and flow control businesses to Tyco shareholders, after which Tyco shareholders will own 100% of the equity in each of the three publicly traded companies. Tyco expects to complete the transaction in approximately 12 months, subject to certain conditions including the approval of Tyco shareholders.
 
Upon completion of the transaction, it is contemplated that Breen will become non-executive chairman of the commercial fire and security company, a director of the flow control company, and a consultant to the ADT North America residential company. In addition, current Tyco directors are expected to serve on the boards of each of the three companies, including the roles of non-executive chairman of the flow control company and the ADT North America residential company.
 
"We will have strong leadership teams at the board and management levels of all three companies, enabling each business to take full advantage of the attractive growth opportunities that lie ahead," said Breen.
 
Creating Three Industry-Leading Companies with Strong Growth Potential
 
ADT North America Residential
 
The standalone ADT North America residential business will be the leading provider of security and fire alarm systems in North America, serving more than 6 million residential homes and small businesses.  ADT designs, sells, installs, monitors and maintains these systems, and provides video, health, and interactive services to the home. The business will have annualized revenue of approximately $3 billion and approximately 16,000 employees. Naren Gursahaney, the current president of Tyco's security solutions segment, will become the new company's chief executive officer.
 
Flow Control
 
As a standalone company, the existing flow control segment will be the leading global manufacturer of flow control products. The company designs, sells and services highly engineered valves and controls for the energy markets, general process industries, mining and water markets. The company's activities also include the design, installation and service of heat management systems for the energy and general process industries, as well as water transmission pipelines and other water/wastewater products. The business will have annualized revenue of approximately $4 billion and approximately 15,000 employees. Patrick Decker, the current president of Tyco's flow control segment, will become the new company's chief executive officer.
 
Commercial Fire and Security
 
Tyco's remaining commercial security business will be combined with the current fire protection segment to form a standalone commercial fire and security company. This company will be a global leader in the design, manufacture, sale, installation and service of security, fire detection and fire suppression systems. The company's commercial security portfolio consists of video and access control products and services for commercial, industrial and governmental customers, as well as anti-theft/electronic article surveillance systems and associated services
 
for retailers. The combined business will have annualized revenue of approximately $10 billion and approximately 69,000 employees. George Oliver, the current president of Tyco's fire protection segment, will become the company's chief executive officer.
 
Breen said the three companies will provide exciting opportunities for Tyco's employees.
 
"I want to thank our outstanding employees for the extraordinary work they have done to get us to this point," he said. "I'm confident that their talent and hard work will allow each of our three standalone businesses to reach its full potential."
 
Transaction Details
 
It is anticipated that all three companies will be capitalized to provide the financial flexibility to take advantage of future growth opportunities. They are expected to have strong balance sheets and investment grade credit ratings. Any existing or potential liabilities that are not associated with a particular entity will be allocated appropriately to each of the businesses.
 
The three entities together are initially expected to pay a dividend that is approximately equal in sum to the current Tyco dividend. Until the planned transactions are completed, Tyco expects to continue to pay its quarterly dividend.
 
One-time transaction costs are expected to total approximately $700 million  largely for debt refinancing, separation and restructuring costs. It is expected that these costs will be partially offset by lower future interest expense and other operational benefits. Under the proposed transaction structure, the ADT North America residential business is expected to be incorporated in the United States, while the flow control business will be incorporated outside the U.S. The commercial fire and security business will remain incorporated in Switzerland.
 
Consummation of the proposed separation is subject to conditions including final approval by the Tyco Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion from counsel, the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and approval by Tyco shareholders. The separation is also subject to the completion of any necessary refinancings. There can be no assurances regarding the ultimate timing of the transaction or that the transaction will be completed.
 
Company to Report Fourth Quarter Results on Nov. 16, 2011
 
Tyco will report its fourth quarter results on November 16, 2011 and the company continues to see positive trends including order activity across its security, fire protection and flow control segments.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Management will discuss this announcement on a conference call and webcast today beginning at 10:00 a.m. ET. Today's conference call for investors can be accessed in the following ways:
 
                 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com
 
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the U.S. is (800) 857-9797. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the U.S. is (517) 308-9262. The passcode for the call is "Tyco".
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available at 12 noon ET on Sept. 19, 2011 and ending at 11:59 p.m. ET on Sept. 26, 2011. The dial-in number for participants in the U.S. is (866) 501-2962. For participants outside the U.S. the replay dial-in number is (203) 369-1830. The passcode for the replay is 2531.
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders. Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This press release contains a number of forward-looking statements.  Words, and variations of words such as "expect", "intend", "will", "anticipate", "believe", "confident", "continue", "propose" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our intent to create three independent companies as a result of the proposed spin-offs, revenue and growth expectations for the three independent companies following the spin-offs, the expectation that the spin-offs will be tax-free, statements regarding the leadership, resources, potential, priorities, and opportunities for the independent companies following the spin-offs, the intent for the three independent companies to remain investment grade following the spin-offs, and the timing of the transactions.  The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and could cause results to materially differ from expectations. Such risks and uncertainties, include, but are not limited to: failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or to satisfy any of the other conditions to the proposed spin-offs; adverse effects on the market price of our common stock and on our operating results because of a failure to complete the proposed spin-offs; failure to realize the expected benefits of the proposed spin-offs; negative
 
effects of announcement or consummation of the proposed spin-offs on the market price of the company's common stock; significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities; general economic and business conditions that affect the companies in connection with the proposed spin-offs; unanticipated expenses such as litigation or legal settlement expenses; failure to obtain tax rulings or tax law changes; changes in capital market conditions that may affect proposed debt refinancing; the impact of the proposed spin-offs on the company's employees, customers and suppliers; future opportunities that the company's board may determine present greater potential to increase shareholder value; and the ability of the companies to operate independently following the spin-offs. Actual results could differ materially.   For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with our businesses, please refer to the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" sections of Tyco's SEC filings, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by contacting Tyco's Investor Relations Department, Tyco International Management Company, 9 Roszel Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540 or at Tyco's Investor Relations website at http://investors.tyco.com/ under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings".  We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement to conform this statement to actual results or changes in the company's expectations, except as required by law.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers around the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2010 revenue of $17 billion and has more than 100,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Dear Colleagues,
 
I am writing to share with you the news that our Board of Directors has approved a plan to separate Tyco International into three independent, publicly traded companies.
 
Under the plan we are announcing today, we will create three new companies from Tyco's current portfolio of businesses:
                 
a standalone ADT North America residential and small business security company;
                 
a standalone flow control company; and
                 
a standalone commercial fire and security company.
 
We expect the process of creating the three new public companies will take approximately 12 months to complete as we work through various financial, legal and regulatory requirements, including the approval of the transaction by Tyco shareholders.
 
Careful Assessment
The decision to take this step follows a careful and thorough assessment by our Board of Directors and senior leadership on the best way to position our businesses for growth and value creation. In evaluating these opportunities, we concluded that creating three independent, public companies is the next logical step for Tyco.
 
We begin this journey from a position of strength. In the four years since completing the separation of our healthcare and electronics businesses, we have strengthened Tyco's competitive position in our core security, fire and flow control platforms through a consistent focus on driving organic growth, including investing in R&D and technology, enhancing our productivity and efficiency, making strategic acquisitions and increasing our presence in key emerging markets. We have also taken steps to streamline our portfolio by divesting certain businesses, like electrical & metal products, that fall outside our core areas of focus.
 
Flexibility to Pursue Focused Strategies
As a result of these efforts, all three of our core businesses are now well-positioned to emerge as strong and focused standalone companies. All three companies will have industry-leading positions in large and fragmented industries. Importantly, the new companies will have greater flexibility to pursue their own focused strategies to achieve growth  both organically and through acquisitions  than they would under Tyco's current corporate structure. Each business will also be able to further sharpen its focus on serving its own distinct customer base.
 
I'm excited about the opportunities for the standalone companies we are creating for another important reason. All three companies will have highly skilled employees and talented, experienced leaders. I'm pleased to inform you that our three current segment presidents will assume the following new roles in the companies when the separation is completed:
 
 
                 
Naren Gursahaney
will become CEO of the ADT North America residential company;
                 
Patrick Decker
will become CEO of the flow control company; and
                 
George Oliver
will become CEO of the commercial fire and security company;
 
Each company will have its own independent board of directors and we expect that a number of current Tyco board members will serve on one or more of the boards of the three companies. Upon completion of the transaction, I expect to become non-executive chairman of the commercial security and fire company, a director of the flow control company and a consultant to the ADT North America residential company. In addition, current Tyco directors are expected to serve the roles of non-executive chairman of the flow control and ADT North America residential company.
 
Smooth, Seamless Transition
As we move forward with our plan over the next 12 months, we are committed to providing regular updates about the progress of the transaction and maintaining an open dialogue throughout the process of preparing our three companies for "Day One" as standalone companies.
 
In order to ensure that we execute on all aspects of our plan, we are creating a Separation Management Team to assume overall responsibility for all aspects of completing our separation into three standalone public companies. The team will consist of corporate and business segment representatives who together will develop a comprehensive work plan for the separation.
 
I'm pleased to announce that Chris Coughlin, who has served as an advisor to Tyco since stepping down as our chief financial officer last year, will lead the Separation Management Team. Chris played a key role in the separation management process for the spin-offs of the healthcare and electronics businesses in 2007 and has a wealth of experience leading companies through complex transactions.
 
With all three businesses well-positioned to operate as separate entities, we expect the transition to proceed smoothly and seamlessly. For the majority of our employees, the transaction will have little impact on your work over the next 12 months. During this time, we ask you to stay focused on meeting the company's objectives, fulfilling your day-to-day responsibilities and continuing to serve the needs of our customers.
 
We are able to take this major step now in large part because of your outstanding work. We are fortunate to be in such a strong position today and I am convinced that this is the right plan to help our businesses reach their full potential as standalone companies.
 
More information about the planned separation will be made available throughout the process. We've also set up a page on to keep you informed about the separation. As always, I encourage you to reach out to your manager with any questions.
InsideTyco
 
Regards,
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders. Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
Dear Colleagues:
 
Ed Breen's announcement today about the plan to separate Tyco into three standalone, public companies is the beginning of an exciting new chapter for the people and the businesses that comprise our company.  While all three business segments, their business units and their customers will benefit from the planned separation, it presents great opportunities for all of the Tyco Security Solutions (TSS) businesses in particular. To recap today's announcement:
 
                 
ADT North America residential and small business will become a standalone, public company, which I will lead.
                 
Fire Protection and Commercial Security will be integrated to form a standalone, public company led by George Oliver.
                 
Flow Control will become a standalone, public company led by Patrick Decker.
 
ADT North America Residential
As North America's leading provider of security services for homes and small businesses, ADT North America residential will become a new standalone public company. At approximately $3 billion in annual revenue and with more than 6 million customers, we are by far the largest security provider in this market, with robust sales, installation, monitoring and service capabilities  and the most prominent brand in the industry. I am honored and pleased to have the opportunity to lead this planned company as CEO, and I am very excited about our prospects for continued growth and success.
 
As an independent company, ADT will be a focused leader in the residential and small business security services industry. I am confident that this intense focus on serving our customers will allow us to deliver even more new, value-added and innovative solutions. Engaging with our customers, anticipating their needs and creating innovative solutions will be an important part of our strategy in this business. We will also be able to attract investors who understand the value inherent in our subscriber-based business model, and want to invest in a pure-play market leader.  This will help us refine our strategy and capital structure to better support our growth aspirations and our mission of "Creating Customers for Life."
 
NA Commercial Security, International Security and Tyco Retail Solutions
With the proposed separation of our North America residential and small business operations, our North America commercial business and our international business units will be aligned with the Tyco Fire Protection business to form a new commercial fire and security company, focused on serving our commercial customers around the world and our residential customers outside of North America.
 
The commercial fire and security company will be a $10 billion leader in this global market, with industry-leading technologies and coverage across our high-growth emerging markets and key vertical markets like retail. Combining these businesses under one leader will allow us to take
further advantage of our resources and know-how, as in many markets we have common customers, technologies and business processes.
 
Under George Oliver's leadership, the planned commercial fire and security company will have a broader set of solutions and capabilities to bring to our existing customer base around the world, while making the company an even more attractive solutions provider to new customers.
 
Tyco Security Products
The Security Products business will also become part of the commercial fire and security company. Security Products is a world leader in access control, video and intrusion solutions, and this integration allows us to continue to build on the improved alignment between the product and service businesses within our security platform. The move also enables us to share best practices between the product businesses within our security and fire platforms.
 
An Important Milestone for Our Company
I'm excited about these changes, as I believe they will help us further accelerate growth in all of our businesses.  The great work done by all our employees in developing and executing on business improvement and growth strategies over the past several years has positioned us to make these changes at a time when we have excellent momentum in each of our business platforms.
 
In addition, the strategic leadership provided by Ed Breen, my colleagues on the Tyco management team and the company's Board of Directors has made this next step in our evolution possible. Over the years, Ed and the team have led Tyco through many critical milestones, restoring investor confidence in our company and positioning us to take advantage of the growth opportunities that lie ahead.
 
Going Forward
Separating Tyco and preparing to launch ADT North America residential as a public company will require a lot of planning and effort, and over the next 12 months it will be critical that we maintain our focus on commitments to our customers and each other. While this is an exciting development for all of us, relatively few employees will be actively involved in the separation activities. That means it is "business as usual" for the vast majority of us over the next year, and most importantly we need to make sure that includes our customers.
 
While the planned separation is exciting on many levels, it represents significant change over time.  During this time, my goal is to communicate with you regularly and frequently as we embark on the planning and separation process.  We will be putting together a communication plan and will ensure that we can capture your questions and provide answers as quickly as possible. Additional information on the separation will also be available on . There are many details of this proposed separation that remain to be resolved, and so you will be hearing from me and our leadership team with more details as they are available.
InsideTyco
Staying Focused and Committed
While the separation planning gets under way, I can't stress enough the importance of continuing to operate as TSS. In order to emerge as three separate and successful companies, we have to continue to maintain our focus on meeting and exceeding our commitments.  These commitments are to each other - in the work we do that relies on the input and collaboration between each employee and his or her colleagues; to our customers - who entrust their business to us; and to our shareholders - who have invested in Tyco and who will become part of the investor base in the three future companies.
 
You'll hear more from me and from George as soon as possible on the timing for the transition of our commercial businesses and Security Products to the new commercial fire and security company. In the meantime it's up to all of us to ensure we execute on our strategies, while delivering on our commitments each quarter.
 
Thank you in advance for your continued efforts and hard work, and your ongoing engagement in building what will become three dynamic, industry-leading companies.
 
Regards,
Naren
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders.   Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions. Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
Dear Flow Control Colleagues:
 
Today, our company made a major announcement of a plan to separate Tyco into three public companies. This represents an important strategic decision to take Tyco in a new direction. It opens an exciting new chapter for each of the three new companies, and I am particularly enthusiastic about the opportunities this presents for the flow control business, our customers and our colleagues.
 
Under the plan, we will create three distinct companies from Tyco's current portfolio of businesses: a standalone ADT North America residential security business; a commercial fire and security business; and our flow control business. The process of creating three public companies will take approximately 12 months to complete as we work through financial, legal and regulatory requirements, including approval of the transaction by Tyco shareholders.
 
Once the separation is complete, each company will have its own management team, board of directors, shareholders and publicly traded stock. More importantly, each business will have greater flexibility to pursue its own focused growth strategy, further strengthen customer relationships and deliver long-term value to our shareholders.  I am honored to have the opportunity to serve as CEO for the flow control company and am very confident about our prospects for continued growth and success. I am also delighted that Ed Breen will serve on the board of directors of our new company and look forward to working with him in our new roles.
 
One of the very clear themes you will hear from Ed and the Tyco leadership team is that we are taking this step from a position of strength. Over the last four years, we have made great progress strengthening our competitive position in our core security, fire and flow control platforms. We've invested in our businesses, expanded our product and service offerings, enhanced our presence in emerging markets and made key strategic acquisitions.
 
Within flow control, I am proud of the great work of our entire team to get us to a point where we are well-positioned to take the next step as a standalone public company.  Today, we have strong positions in very large and attractive end markets. We are expanding our footprint in high-growth emerging markets by investing in organic growth and acquisitions. We continue to add after-market service capabilities to meet our customers' needs around the globe.  And we are making significant progress in developing frame agreements with key global customers and leveraging our broad portfolio of products and services. These competitive strengths will enable us to attract investors and capital that can be deployed to achieve our long-term goal of becoming the undisputed leader in the markets we serve around the world.
 
As we take the first steps to plan for this exciting future, I want to emphasize the importance of continuing to deliver on our commitments for the remainder of 2011 and throughout the coming year.  While the work of completing the separation will involve some members of our team, it will be business as usual' for the vast majority of our 15,000 colleagues in flow control. It is more important than ever for us to stay focused on our day-to-day responsibilities, serving our customers and meeting our financial commitments.
 
 
In the coming weeks, you'll hear more about the separation from me and the Tyco leadership team, including the selection of a headquarters location for the new flow company. Additional information on the separation will also be available on . We will keep you informed of our progress through regular communications. We have come a long way as a team and we are in a strong position today to build on our success as we prepare for our future as an independent public company.
InsideTyco
 
Regards,
 
 
Patrick Decker President, Tyco Flow Control
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders.    Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.
 

Exhibit 99.6
 
Dear Colleagues:
 
Ed Breen's announcement today about the plan to separate Tyco into three independent, publicly traded companies marks the beginning of a new journey for Tyco  and for all of us in Tyco Fire Protection.
 
The plan to separate Tyco presents exciting opportunities for our employees, our customers and our shareholders. Here's what's happening:
 
                 
Fire Protection and Commercial Security will be integrated to become a standalone, public company which I will lead.
                 
ADT North America residential and small business will become a standalone, public company led by Naren Gursahaney.
                 
Flow Control will become a standalone, public company led by Patrick Decker.
 
Commercial Fire and Security
The standalone fire protection and commercial security company, which for now will be called commercial fire and security, will integrate our existing fire protection organization with the global commercial business of Tyco Security Solutions, including the commercial security operations in North America. Tyco Retail Solutions, Tyco Security Products and the international security service operations will also be part of commercial fire and security.
 
Once the separation is completed, commercial fire and security will be a global leader in the design, manufacture, installation and service of security, fire detection and fire suppression systems. For those not familiar with the commercial security businesses, they provide integrated solutions that include video and access control products and services for commercial, industrial and governmental customers and anti-theft / electronic article surveillance systems and store performance solutions for retailers. The international security service operations also provide installation and monitoring for residential customers outside of North America.
 
The combined businesses of commercial fire and security generate approximately $10 billion of annual revenue and have about 69,000 employees worldwide. After separation, commercial fire and security will be the world's largest provider of fire and security products and services for customers in our key retail, government, institutional and energy vertical markets.
 
As a standalone, public company, commercial fire and security will have an industry-leading position in a large, fragmented and growing global market. We will be well-capitalized with a strong balance sheet and the resources to pursue our own growth strategy, giving us the ability to create sustainable, long-term value for our shareholders, customers and employees.
 
 
Combining our fire protection and commercial security businesses provides operational advantages over our current structure. While the fire and commercial security teams have previously operated in different segments, the reality is that they serve many of the same customers, often in the same vertical and geographic markets. By integrating our organizations and aligning our efforts, we can leverage our complementary strengths and offer a more comprehensive set of solutions to our customers.
 
We are confident that commercial fire and security will be attractive to potential investors. The integration of fire protection with commercial security will form a company with limited capital requirements that provides an attractive return on investment with strong cash flow generation  attributes that should offer a compelling opportunity for potential shareholders.
 
An Important Milestone for Our Company
As Ed said earlier today, the planned separation is the next logical step for our company. Tyco's businesses currently operate with very distinct business models, each with different investment needs and growth strategies. Ed and the senior management team firmly believe that these businesses can best achieve their full potential as standalone, independent companies rather than under the current Tyco structure.
 
The decision to separate Tyco into three independent companies was made possible by the hard work and dedication of all our employees around the world, and the strategic leadership of Ed, his management team and the company's Board of Directors. Since joining Tyco in 2002, they have led Tyco through many critical milestones, restoring investor confidence in our company and positioning us to take advantage of the growth opportunities that lie ahead.
 
When the separation is complete, Ed will transition from his current role to serve as non-executive chairman of the board of directors for the new commercial fire and security company. Ed's input as chairman will greatly benefit our company, and in my role as CEO I will look forward to having Ed's knowledge and experience to draw from.
 
Stay Focused and Stay Tuned
Getting ready to emerge as a public company requires a lot of preparation, and over the next 12 months it will be critical that we continue to execute on our initiatives and commitments. For our customers and the vast majority of employees, it will be business as usual' for the next year.
 
I'm sure you have questions about this plan, and my goal is to get you answers as quickly as possible. Today is only the beginning of a 12-month process to separate the companies, and you will hear more from me, your respective business unit presidents and function leaders in the coming weeks and months. Additional information on today's announcement can also be found on .
InsideTyco
 
As we work through the details of the separation, let's make sure we stay focused on our customers and continue to drive towards our Q4 objectives. We've had a good year so far and we want to finish 2011 on a strong note, while maintaining our commitment to our core values of integrity, teamwork, excellence and accountability.
 
This is a great day for Tyco, and for all of us. I'm thrilled about the opportunity to work with all of you, and I'm honored to lead the commercial fire and security team. I can't wait to get started!
 
Regards,
 
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders.    Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.
 

Exhibit 99.7
1.
             
What is happening?
Tyco's Board of Directors has approved a proposed plan to divide the company into three independent, publicly traded companies. The three companies created through the separation will be the ADT North America residential security business (ADT NA residential), the flow control business, and the combined fire protection and commercial security business.
 
The separation is expected to take 12 months to complete.
 
2.
             
What is the rationale behind the decision to separate the company?
Tyco's Board and senior management have looked at a variety of options to determine what organizational and operating structure will optimize the company's growth potential. After an extensive review, the Board and management have determined that the company's businesses are well-positioned to grow and achieve success on their own. Each business provides products and services tailored to specific customers with very little overlap. As independent companies each business will be free to pursue their own distinct strategies for growth.
 
3.
             
Why are we doing this now?
Since the previous separation of Tyco into three companies in 2007, Tyco International has invested in the company's growth and improved our global operations by increasing productivity and becoming more efficient. The company has also completed several strategic acquisitions that have strengthened our market positions globally, and divested some non-core businesses. Today, we believe we have reached a point where our businesses can best achieve their full potential as standalone, independent companies.
 
4.
             
What impact will this have for Tyco employees?
This is an exciting plan for our company and our employees, and for the vast majority of our 100,000 employees around the world, today's announcement means business as usual.
 
For employees at Tyco corporate and the three segment corporate teams, this plan will create opportunities for new public company roles in each of the businesses. For a very small number of employees, there may not be roles in the new companies, and in these cases, there will be appropriate benefits in place to support impacted employees in the transition.
Our business presidents and functional leaders will be working over the coming weeks and months to assess the needs of the new organizations.  We intend to put a corporate structure in place at each of the three companies that is sized appropriately for their respective revenue bases, but no decisions have been made yet about the structures or roles that will be required in the new companies. The decisions made as a result of those assessments will be communicated to employees promptly.
 
As we move through this process, it's important that we all remain focused on our day-to-day responsibilities, and continue to meet our commitments to our shareholders, our customers and each other.
 
5.
             
How many jobs will be eliminated as a result of this transaction and what areas of the company are most affected?
Very few of our 100,000 employees will be impacted by the separation.  We will communicate decisions on the new organizations as soon as possible.
 
6.
             
Will the companies keep their names?
In a transaction of this size and complexity, there are many details that must be worked out. As of now we know that ADT NA Residential will continue to operate under the ADT brand. We have not made any decisions about the post-separation names of flow control and commercial fire & security, including whether they will retain the Tyco name. Those decisions will be made and announced in due course.
 
7.
             
Who will lead the three companies?
Naren Gursahaney will be CEO of ADT NA residential. Patrick Decker will be CEO of flow control. George Oliver will be CEO of commercial fire & security.
 
8.
             
What will Ed Breen do after the separation?
Upon completion of the separation, it is anticipated that Ed will become non-executive chairman of the Board of Directors for commercial fire & security, a director of the flow control company, and a consultant to the ADT North America residential company.
 
9.
             
Why isn't Ed Breen remaining CEO of one of the three post-separation companies?
Each of the proposed companies has strong, accomplished leaders with extensive experience in their respective industries and with these businesses. Ed has great confidence in George, Naren and Patrick's ability to lead the new companies, and he feels it is the right time to transition the leadership of the businesses into their capable hands.
10.
      
What will happen to Tyco's Board of Directors?
A number of current Tyco directors are expected to serve on the boards of each of the three companies, including the roles of non-executive chairman of the flow control and ADT NA residential companies.
 
11.
      
What will happen to Ed's senior management team after the separation?
We expect some members of the senior team to take roles with the new companies, but no decisions have been made at this time. The senior leadership teams for each of the three companies will be announced as part of the separation process.
 
12.
      
Will there be a dedicated team to manage the separation?
Yes. Chris Coughlin, former CFO of Tyco and currently an advisor to the company, will lead the transition team, which will be referred to as the Separation Management Team (SMT). Chris has been through this type of separation before and his involvement will allow George, Naren and Patrick to keep their focus on operating their businesses during the transition to becoming stand-alone companies.
 
13.
      
Where will the new companies be headquartered?
ADT NA residential will remain headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida. The commercial fire & security company will be incorporated in Switzerland with executive offices in Princeton, New Jersey. The location of flow control has not yet been determined.
 
14.
      
Why split the ADT North America residential business from the rest of security?
ADT North America residential has a different operating model than the rest of the security business. The customers are different and the business model is different.  The ADT North America residential business is a consumer, subscriber-based business, with distinct operating characteristics from a traditional manufacturing and services business. As a stand-alone residential security services company, ADT will be a focused market leader in North America.
 
15.
      
Where do ADT's small business operations fit in?
In North America the small business customers are included in the ADT North America residential business. Outside of North America they will remain with the commercial security business and become part of commercial fire & security.
 
16.
     
What about residential security operations outside of North America?
Those customers will align with the commercial security business and the operations will become part of commercial fire & security.
17.
      
What stock exchange will the three post-separation companies be part of, and what will their ticker symbols be?
Upon separation, all three companies are expected to trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  Each company's specific ticker symbol will be determined prior to separation.
 
18.
      
How can I learn more about what's happening with the separation?
Today's announcement is the beginning of what is anticipated to be a 12 month process to separate Tyco into three companies. In the weeks and months ahead you'll hear further details from your business and function leaders, and from the Separation Management Team.
 
19.
      
How will the company's Transformation initiatives be impacted by the plan to separate Tyco into three public companies?
We have made significant progress over the last year in developing and executing initiatives to drive greater efficiency across our organization, and in particular with the transformation projects in our Finance, HR and IT organizations. Going forward, the transformation initiatives underway will be adapted to ensure they align with the needs of the new companies after separation.
 
20.
      
What will happen to other "One Tyco" activities, councils and initiatives like the Enterprise Selling initiative launched in 2010?
Commercial initiatives such as Enterprise Selling have been of strategic value for the company, and we have made good progress developing new customer relationships and improving collaboration among Tyco's teams. With the plan to separate into three companies, we will refocus our activities to align with the requirements of the three new companies. This will mean stepping back from some of the larger "One Tyco" initiatives, although we expect all of our team members to continue collaborating and supporting each other wherever possible as we move towards separation.
 

Exhibit 99.8
Tyco Separation Announcement
September 19, 2011
Vendor/Supplier Letter Template
 
Dear Supplier,
 
You may have heard the news that Tyco announced regarding the planned separation of Tyco's businesses into three separate, publicly traded operating companies. The planned companies are:
 
ADT North America residential security
, the leading provider of security and fire alarm systems serving more than 6 million homes and small businesses in the US and Canada.
 
Flow control
,
a global supplier of flow management, water and environmental systems and thermal control solutions.
 
Commercial fire and security
, the largest global provider of fire and security products and services for commercial, industrial, governmental and retail customers worldwide.
 
I have attached a copy of the press release we issued on Monday, September 19, 2011 announcing this decision for your reference.
 
We're excited about the potential benefits of this separation. As independent, publicly traded operating companies, ADT North America residential security, flow control, and commercial fire and security will be better positioned than ever to serve customers. These businesses provide a unique set of products and services tailored to the needs of specific customers, with little overlap, and we believe they can best achieve their full potential as standalone, independent companies rather than under the current Tyco structure.
 
Upon separation, each company will have its own operating management teams and boards of directors, focused on setting their own strategies for acquisitions, alliances, and resource allocations. Each business will also be able to sharpen its focus on serving its own distinct customer base.
 
We expect the planned separation will take 12 months to complete, and in the meantime we anticipate no significant impact on the operations of the business units, the products and services they offer or their interactions with you.  The vast majority of employees will not see significant changes to their day-to-day responsibilities.
 
As we work through the details in the coming months, you may want to consider how the separation could present new opportunities for you as a supplier to support these three companies. We have always viewed our relationship with our suppliers as a partnership built on trust and open communication, and we fully expect that philosophy to continue after the planned separation. We greatly value our relationship with you, and remain committed to excellence in all areas of our operations.
I'm pleased to be able to share this news today, and will keep you updated on our progress moving forward.  Please feel free to reach out to me or your contact within Tyco if you have any questions.
 
Regards,
 
(sig)
 
Name
 
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders.    Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.

Exhibit 99.9
Tyco Separation Announcement
September 19, 2011
Customer Letter Template
 
Dear (Customer):
 
As you may have heard, Tyco announced that its Board of Directors has approved a plan to separate Tyco's businesses into three separate, publicly traded operating companies:
 
ADT North America residential security
, the leading provider of security and fire alarm systems serving more than 6 million homes and small businesses in the US and Canada.
 
Flow control
,
a global supplier of flow management, water and environmental systems and thermal control solutions.
 
Commercial fire and security
, the largest global provider of fire and security products and services for commercial, industrial, governmental and retail customers worldwide.
 
I have attached a copy of the press release we issued on Monday, September 19, 2011 announcing this decision for your reference.
 
We're excited about the potential benefits of this separation. As independent, publicly traded operating companies, ADT North America residential security, flow control, and commercial fire and security will be better positioned than ever to serve customers. These businesses provide a unique set of products and services tailored to the needs of specific customers, with little overlap, and we believe they can best achieve their full potential as standalone, independent companies rather than under the current Tyco structure.
 
Upon separation, each company will have its own operating management teams and boards of directors, focused on setting their own strategies for acquisitions, alliances, and resource allocations. Each business will also be able to sharpen its focus on serving its own distinct customer base.
 
We expect the planned separation will take 12 months to complete, and in the meantime we anticipate no significant impact on the operations of the business units, the products and services they offer or their interactions with you.  The vast majority of employees will not see significant changes to their day-to-day responsibilities.
 
We greatly value our relationship with you, and remain committed to excellence in all areas of our operations. We look forward to sharing our progress with you as we move forward. Please feel free to reach out to me or your regular Tyco contact.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
(sig)
 
Name
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off transactions, a definitive proxy statement for the stockholders of Tyco will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   Tyco will mail the final proxy statement to its stockholders.    Investors and security holders may obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement, as well as other relevant documents containing important information about Tyco at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) once such documents are filed with the SEC.  You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Tyco at the SEC public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington D.C 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, TYCO'S STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED SPIN-OFF TRANSACTIONS.
 
Tyco and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed spin-off transactions.  Information concerning the interests of Tyco's participants in the solicitation is set forth in Tyco's proxy statements and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, previously filed with the SEC, and in the proxy statement relating to the spin-off transactions when it becomes available.
 


