FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20110916150029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
On September 15, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had reached an agreement to acquire Visonic Ltd. (TASE: VSC.TA) for approximately $100 million in cash.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland
 September 15, 2011
 Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) announced today that it has reached an agreement to acquire Visonic Ltd. (TASE: VSC.TA), a global developer and manufacturer of electronic security systems and components, for approximately $100 million in cash. The acquisition will strengthen the wireless product and technology portfolio and market presence of the Tyco Security Products business in the intrusion security market.
 
Visonic is a leader in developing advanced wireless technology for the security industry.  The company's recently introduced PowerG wireless communications technology offers increased communications range and superior 128-bit encryption to secure communication between wireless sensors/detectors and panels. The PowerG technology builds on Visonic's PowerCode technology which is in use in more than 1 million wireless installations around the world. The business has annualized revenues of more than $75 million.
 
"The acquisition of Visonic strengthens the technology capabilities in our intrusion security portfolio and will enable us to enhance the solutions we can offer to our residential and commercial customers," said Mark VanDover, President of Tyco Security Products. "Visonic is an established leader in wireless security technology and its strong presence in the European security market complements Tyco's strength in the North American market."
 
Visonic operates a state-of-the-art design center at its headquarters in Tel Aviv, Israel, as well as a manufacturing center in Kiryat Gat, Israel. The company is active in more than 100 countries, with a strong presence in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
 
The transaction is expected to close later this year and is subject to customary closing conditions.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers around the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. Tyco had 2010 revenue of $17 billion and has more than 100,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
 


