FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20111117163134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02
                                            
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As previously announced, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") plans to separate the Company into three independent, publicly traded companies by spinning-off its flow control and North American residential security businesses to holders of the Company's common stock. In connection therewith, the Company announced that Mr. Frank S. Sklarsky, Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Carol A. Davidson, Senior Vice-President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer will cease to serve in their respective positions following the completion of the spin-offs. Pending completion of the spin-offs, each officer is expected to remain in his role. Upon departure, it is anticipated that each officer will be eligible for severance benefits under the Company's Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


