FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20110728070217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02
                                          
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 28, 2011, Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2011.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
                 
Company reports revenue of $4.3 billion, with 10.5%* revenue growth and 4% organic growth
 
                 
Operating margin before special items improves 170* basis points to 12.1%*
 
                 
Diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items increases 18%
 
*
Amount excludes results from the Electrical and Metal Products business following the sale of a majority interest in that business completed on Dec. 22, 2010.
 
(Income and EPS amounts are attributable to Tyco common shareholders)
($ millions, except per-share amounts)
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland  July 28, 2011  Tyco International Ltd.
(NYSE: TYC) today reported $0.76 in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the fiscal third quarter of 2011 and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items of $0.85 per share.  Excluding the Electrical & Metal Products business, which is now reported as an equity investment, revenue in the quarter of $4.3 billion increased 10.5% versus the prior year with organic revenue growth of 4%.  The benefit of foreign currency contributed 5.6 percentage points to overall revenue growth.
 
"We delivered a strong quarter operationally with improved top-line growth and operating margin expansion which drove an 18% year-over-year increase in earnings per share,"  said Tyco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen. "Our solid financial performance and strong balance sheet provides us with the financial flexibility to invest in our businesses, strengthen our core security, fire and flow control platforms and return excess cash to shareholders."
 
"We recently completed the acquisitions of Signature Security Group and KEF Holdings and last week announced the acquisition of Chemguard to expand our product and service offerings in fire protection. During the third quarter, we continued to return cash to shareholders by repurchasing $300 million under our current $1 billion program."
 
Organic revenue, free cash flow and operating income, operating margin, income and diluted EPS from continuing operations before special items are non-GAAP financial measures and are described below.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures, see the attached tables.  Additional schedules as well as Third Quarter Review slides can be found at www.tyco.com on the Investor Relations portion of Tyco's website.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
The financial results presented in the tables below are in accordance with GAAP unless otherwise indicated.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.  All comparisons are to the fiscal third quarter of 2010 unless otherwise indicated.
 
Security Solutions
 
 
Revenue of $2.2 billion increased 13% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 4.5%.  Recurring revenue grew 5% organically while non-recurring revenue grew 4% organically.  Both recurring and non-recurring revenue grew in all geographic regions.
 
Operating income was $327 million and the operating margin was 15.1%. Special Items of $31 million consisted primarily of restructuring charges.  Operating income before special items was $358 million and the operating margin improved 170 basis points to 16.5%.  The year-over-year operating margin improvement was driven by growth in the higher margin recurring revenue business driven by the Broadview acquisition completed in the third quarter of 2010.  The year-over-year improvement in operating margin also reflected the continued benefit of restructuring and productivity initiatives and increased volume in the commercial business.
 
Fire Protection
 
 
Revenue of $1.2 billion increased 8% in the quarter with organic revenue growth of 5%. Organic revenue increased 5% in service and 11% in fire products while systems installation was flat.  Backlog of $1.26 billion remained flat on a quarter sequential basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency.
 
Operating income was $146 million and the operating margin was 12.2%.  Special items of $12 million consisted primarily of divestiture charges.  Operating income before special items was $158 million and the operating margin was 13.2%. The 60 basis point margin improvement was driven by increased service and product revenues and selectivity of project work.
 
Flow Control
 
 
Revenue of $928 million increased 9% in the quarter. Organic revenue was flat for the quarter with growth of 8% in Valves and 23% in Thermal Controls offset by a decline of 31% in the Water business.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency, orders increased 12% year-over-year and backlog increased 4% to $1.75 billion on a quarter sequential basis.
 
Operating income was $103 million and the operating margin was 11.1%.  Operating income and operating margin before special items were $106 million and 11.4%, respectively. The year-over-year decline in operating margin was primarily attributable to the contribution of a large project in the Pacific Water business in the prior-year quarter.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
                 
Cash from operating activities was $708 million and free cash flow was $366 million, which included a cash outflow of $33 million primarily related to restructuring activities.
 
                 
The company completed the quarter with $1.63 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
 
                 
Corporate expense, excluding special items, was $102 million.
 
                 
The tax rate before special items was 13.9%.
 
                 
During the third quarter, the company repurchased 6 million shares for $300 million under the new $1 billion share repurchase program announced last quarter.
 
                 
On July 19, 2011, Tyco announced the acquisition of Chemguard, Inc., a leader in fire fighting foam concentrates and equipment, foam systems, and specialty chemicals.  The
 
business will be integrated into Tyco's Fire Protection Products business upon closing of the transaction which is expected in the second half of calendar 2011.
 
ABOUT TYCO INTERNATIONAL
 
Tyco International Ltd. (NYSE: TYC) is a diversified, global company that provides vital products and services to customers around the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves and controls, and other industrial products.  Tyco had 2010 revenue of $17 billion and has more than 100,000 employees worldwide. More information on Tyco can be found at www.tyco.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
Management will discuss the company's third quarter results for 2011 and outlook for the fourth quarter during a conference call and webcast today beginning at 8:00 a.m. ET.  Today's conference call for investors can be accessed in the following ways:
 
                 
At Tyco's website: http://investors.tyco.com.
 
                 
By telephone: For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 857-9797. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (517) 308-9262, passcode "Tyco".
 
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on July 28, 2011 and ending at 11:30 p.m. (ET) on August 5, 2011. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 925-0258. For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (203) 369-3861, passcode 8829.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
Organic revenue, free cash flow (outflow) (FCF), and income from continuing operations, earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations, operating income, operating margin and corporate expense, in each case "before special items," are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
Organic revenue is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business. The difference between reported net revenue (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic revenue (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and other changes that do not reflect the underlying results and trends (for example, revenue reclassifications). Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company's organic growth / decline calculations incorporate an estimate of prior year reported revenue associated with acquired entities that have been fully integrated
 
within the first year (such as Broadview Security), and exclude prior year revenues associated with entities that do not meet the criteria for discontinued operations which have been divested within the past year. The rate of organic growth or decline is calculated based on the adjusted number to better reflect the rate of growth or decline of the combined business, in the case of acquisitions, or the remaining business, in the case of dispositions. The rate of organic growth or decline for acquired businesses that are not fully integrated within the first year will continue to be based on unadjusted historical revenue. Organic revenue and the rate of organic growth or decline as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Organic revenue is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying results of the company's businesses, such as acquisitions and divestitures. It may be used as a component of the company's compensation programs. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's revenue. This limitation is best addressed by using organic revenue in combination with the GAAP numbers. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of organic revenue.
 
FCF is a useful measure of the company's cash which is free from any significant existing obligation. The difference between Cash Flows from Operating Activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash flows that the company believes are useful to identify. FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the number that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation. It, or a measure that is based on it, may be used as a component in the company's incentive compensation plans. The difference reflects the impact from:
 
                 
net capital expenditures,
 
                 
accounts purchased by ADT,
 
                 
cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities, voluntary pension contributions, and
 
                 
the sale of accounts receivable programs.
 
Capital expenditures and accounts purchased by ADT are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities is subtracted because these cash outflows are not available for general corporate uses. Voluntary pension contributions and the impact from the sale of accounts receivable programs are added or subtracted because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it adjusts for cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure. This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow numbers.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures. Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period. See the accompanying tables to this press
 
release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
The company has presented its income and EPS from continuing operations, operating income and margin, and its corporate expense before special items. Special items include charges and gains related to divestitures, acquisitions, restructurings, impairments, legacy legal and tax charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends of the company or business segment, as applicable. The company utilizes these measures to assess overall operating performance and segment level core operating performance, as well as to provide insight to management in evaluating overall and segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions. The Company also presents its effective tax rate as adjusted for special items for consistency. One or more of these measures may be used as components in the company's incentive compensation plans. These measures are useful for investors because they may permit more meaningful comparisons of the company's underlying operating results and business trends between periods. The difference between income and EPS from continuing operations before special items and income and EPS from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measures) consists of the impact of the special items noted above on the applicable GAAP measure. Operating income and margin before special items do not reflect any additional adjustments that are not reflected in income from continuing operations before special items. The limitation of these measures is that they exclude the impact (which may be material) of items that increase or decrease the company's reported operating income and margin and operating income and EPS from continuing operations. This limitation is best addressed by using the non-GAAP measures in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.  Tyco provides general corporate services to its segments and those costs are reported in the "Corporate and Other" segment. This segment's operating income (loss) is presented as "Corporate Expense."
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein and in accompanying conference calls or webcasts that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release and accompanying conference calls generally include, but are not limited to, statements addressing Tyco's future financial condition and operating results, the health of the industries and end markets in which Tyco operates, and Tyco's acquisition, divestiture, restructuring and capital market related activities. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by Tyco's management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. Economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco's businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Tyco is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. More detailed information about these and other factors
 
is set forth in Tyco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 24, 2010 and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Note: These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2010 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2011.
 
 
Note: These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2010, and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2011.
 
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
Earnings Per Share Summary
(Unaudited)
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended June 24, 2011
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Tyco International Ltd.
For the Quarter Ended June 25, 2010
(in millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 


