FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20120312170535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.07
                                            
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
The 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company") was held on March 7, 2012 in Zrich, Switzerland.  At the meeting, the holders of 383,669,301 registered shares of the Company's common stock were represented in person or by proxy, constituting a quorum.  At the meeting, shareholders voted on the following proposals and cast their votes as described below.  The proposals are described in detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 13, 2011.  The vote results detailed below represent final results as certified by the Inspector of Elections.
 
Proposal No. 1  Approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements
 
Proposal No. 1 was a management proposal to approve the annual report, the parent company financial statements of Tyco International Ltd and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 2  Discharge of the Board of Directors from Liability
 
Proposal No. 2 was a management proposal to discharge the Board of Directors from liability for the financial year ended September 30, 2011. This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
 
Proposal No. 3  Election of the Board of Directors
 
Proposal No. 3 was the election of the Board of Directors.  The following individuals were elected to serve on the Board of Directors for a one-year term.
 
 
Proposal No. 4.a  Election of Statutory Auditors (Deloitte AG (Zrich))
 
Proposal No. 4.a was a management proposal to elect Deloitte AG (Zrich) as statutory auditors until the next annual general meeting.  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 4.b  Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Deloitte & Touche LLP)
 
Proposal No. 4.b was a management proposal to ratify Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for purposes of United States securities law reporting for the year ending September 28, 2012. This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 4.c  Election of Special Auditors (PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (Zrich))
 
Proposal No. 4.c was a management proposal to elect PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (Zrich) as special auditors until the next annual general meeting. This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 5.a  Allocation of Fiscal Year 2010 Results
 
Proposal No. 5.a was a management proposal to allocate the Company's income for 2011 on its stand-alone Swiss statutory financial statements to reduce the accumulated deficit.  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 5.b  Consolidation of Reserves
 
Proposal No. 5.b was a management proposal to consolidate the Company's reserves in its statutory accounts.  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 5.c  Payment of an Ordinary Cash Dividend
 
Proposal No. 5.b was a management proposal to pay an ordinary cash dividend of up to $1.00 per share out of the Company's "contributed surplus" equity position.  A portion of the dividend
will be paid in two equal instalments of $0.25 per share on May 23, 2012 and August 22, 2012.  In addition, shareholder conditionally approved the payment of additional $0.25 dividends on November 15, 2012 and February 20, 2013.  These conditional dividends will not be paid if the record date for the spin-offs of the Company's flow control and North American residential and small business security businesses precedes the record date that would otherwise be required to pay such cash dividends on such dates
.
 
 
Proposal No. 6  Advisory (Consultative) Vote on Executive Compensation
 
Proposal No. 6 was a management proposal to hold a non-binding advisory (or consultative) vote on the compensation of the Company's executives, as described in the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Executive Compensation Report."  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote.
 
 
Proposal No. 7  Amendments to Articles of Association.
 
Proposal No. 7 was a management proposal to amend the Company's Articles of Association to reflect new Swiss legal regulations regarding book-entry shares and the change in the Company's registered seat in Switzerland.  This proposal was approved by the requisite vote
 
 
Item 8.01               Other Events.
 
At the annual general meeting, under Proposal No.7, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the Company's Articles of Association to reflect new Swiss legal regulations regarding book-entry shares under Article 7 and the change in the Company's registered seat in Switzerland under Article 1thereof.  A copy of the amended Articles of Association reflecting the change to Article 7 is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  We expect to further amend Article 1 of the Articles of Association once the corporate seat is moved to Neuhausen.
 
Item 9.01               Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 12, 2012

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


