FILE:TYC/TYC-8K-20121004171724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to provide Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco") pro forma financial information for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, September 24, 2010 and September 25, 2009 and the nine-months ended June 29, 2012 and June 24, 2011, as well as other Tyco updated financial information, in connection with its previously reported distributions (the "Distributions") of shares of common stock of The ADT Corporation ("ADT") and common shares of Pentair Ltd. (f/k/a Tyco Flow Control International Ltd.) ("New Pentair") on September 28, 2012 (the "Distribution Date").
After the Distribution Date, Tyco does not beneficially own any shares of ADT and New Pentair and, following the Distributions, will not consolidate the financial results of ADT and New Pentair for the purpose of its own financial reporting. The unaudited pro forma financial information of Tyco giving effect to the Distributions and the related notes thereto are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Tyco and Supplemental Financial Information of Tyco for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, September 24, 2010 and September 25, 2009 and the nine-months ended June 29, 2012 and June 24, 2011 are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(d) Exhibits
The exhibit listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index is being filed herewith.
Forward-Looking Statements
The exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K contain statements concerning expectations of financial or operational performance or economic outlook, or concerning other future events or results, or which refer to matters which are not historical facts, which are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Similarly, statements that describe Tyco's objectives, expectations, plans or goals are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, expectations concerning the outlook for Tyco's, business, productivity, plans and goals for future operational improvements and capital investments, operational performance, future market conditions or economic performance and developments in the capital and credit markets and expected future financial performance, as well as any information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include statements regarding the expected benefits of the Distributions (each as described in Tyco's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on Schedule 14A on August 3, 2012 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement")).
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results or events may differ materially from those projected or implied in those statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Distributions could disrupt current plans and operations and business relationships or pose difficulties in attracting or retaining employees for Tyco.
We caution against placing undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect Tyco's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to Tyco as of the date a forward-looking statement is made. Forward-looking statements set forth or incorporated by reference herein speak only as of the date hereof or the date of the document incorporated by reference, as the case may be. Tyco undertakes no obligation to revise forward-looking statements to reflect future events, changes in circumstances, or changes in beliefs. In the event that Tyco does update any forward-looking statements, no inference should be made that Tyco will make additional updates with respect to that statement, related matters, or any other forward looking statements. Any corrections or revisions and other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, including discussions of significant risk factors, may appear in Tyco's public filings with the SEC, which are accessible at www.sec.gov, and which you are advised to consult.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On September 28, 2012, Tyco announced that it had completed the previously announced spin-offs of The ADT Corporation ("ADT") and Pentair Ltd. (formerly known as Tyco Flow Control International Ltd.) ("Tyco Flow Control") through the pro rata distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of each of ADT and Tyco Flow Control to Tyco's shareholders in the form of a special dividend out of Tyco's contributed surplus (the "Distributions" or "spin-offs"). Immediately following the distributions, Pentair, Inc. merged with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of New Pentair (the "Merger"). As a result of the Distributions and the Merger, Tyco does not beneficially own any shares of ADT or Tyco Flow Control.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements were derived from our Historical Consolidated Financial Statements and give effect to the spin-offs and the related transactions. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read together with our Historical Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended June 29, 2012 and June 24, 2011 and fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 present our results of operations assuming the spin-offs and the related transactions had been completed as of the first day of fiscal year 2009 (September 26, 2008). The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2012 presents our consolidated financial position assuming that the spin-offs and the related transactions had been completed on that date. Specifically, the pro forma adjustments include giving effect to the following:
 
 
 
On June 27, 2012, Tyco and its finance subsidiary commenced tender offers for an aggregate of $2.6 billion of various series of notes issued by Tyco and/or its finance subsidiary. On July 12, 2012, Tyco accepted for payment, and paid, $2.1 billion in principal amount of notes tendered. In addition, Tyco redeemed an aggregate of approximately $473 million in principal amount of notes due in 2013 and 2014 that were not tendered. In connection with these transactions Tyco has incurred, or will incur, debt refinancing charges of approximately $450 million (on a pre-tax basis), which includes $17 million of unamortized deferred financing costs that will be written off. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations do not include any adjustments related to the retirement of $2.6 billion of Tyco's outstanding debt securities. However, they do reflect the impact on interest expense of the anticipated post-Distribution capital structure.
The assumptions underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes, which should be read in conjunction with the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe the assumptions used and pro forma adjustments derived from such assumptions, are reasonable under the circumstances and are based upon currently available information. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations do not reflect material non-recurring charges related to costs of the Distributions and the Merger, which we anticipate will affect the consolidated statement of income within 12 months following the distribution date. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations do not reflect adjustments to decrease historical corporate expense, which we expect to be approximately $225 million annually post-separation. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations also do not reflect increased operating costs that we expect to incur as a result of the split of these two businesses. These costs primarily relate to information technology, finance, human resources, customer service, marketing, real estate and other functions. We estimate the aggregate of these amounts to be approximately $35 million annually. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations or financial condition had the Distributions and the Merger been completed on the dates assumed. Additionally, these statements are not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations or financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflects a $411 million increase to deferred tax liabilities for U.S. federal and certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards transferred to ADT upon the spin-off.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Items Not Included
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations do not include any adjustments related to the retirement of $2.6 billion of Tyco's outstanding debt securities. On June 27, 2012, Tyco and its finance subsidiary commenced tender offers for an aggregate of $2.6 billion of various series of notes issued by Tyco and/or its finance subsidiary. On July 12, 2012, Tyco accepted for payment, and paid, $2.1 billion in principal amount of notes tendered. In addition, Tyco redeemed an aggregate of approximately $473 million in principal amount of notes due in 2013 and 2014 that were not tendered. In connection with these transactions Tyco has incurred, or will incur, debt refinancing charges of approximately $450 million (on a pre-tax basis), which includes $17 million of unamortized deferred financing costs that will be written off.
 
The following information is presented on an unaudited pro forma basis as if the Distributions had been completed as of the beginning of the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
We expect annual corporate expense post-separation to be approximately $225 million.
 
 
 
We intend to continue to fund capital expenditures to drive growth, to improve the cost structure of our business, to invest in new processes and technology and to maintain high quality production standards. We expect that the level of capital expenditures in fiscal year 2012 will exceed spending levels in fiscal year 2011 and exceed depreciation.
 
 
Capital expenditures related to company-owned security systems installed in customers' premises were $169 million and $149 million in the nine months ended June 29, 2012 and June 24, 2011, respectively, and $213 million, $184 million and $267 million, in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
In addition to the above capital expenditures, acquisitions of dealer generated customer accounts in ROW Systems Installation & Services totaled $17 million and $25 million in the nine months ended June 29, 2012 and June 24, 2011, respectively, and $33 million, $27 million and $32 million, in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The following table presents our cash and cash equivalents and capitalization as of June 29, 2012 on an unaudited historical basis and on an unaudited pro forma basis giving effect to the Distributions, the Merger and related transactions as if they occurred on June 29, 2012. This table reflects the pro forma impact of the transactions on certain balance sheet items included in our historical consolidated balance sheet. It does not reflect the pro forma impact of the Transactions to our Swiss statutory financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with the "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Financial Statements of Tyco" and accompanying notes thereto, and in conjunction with Tyco's consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Tyco's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 29, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 31, 2012.
 
 
 


