FILE:STT/STT-8K-20031021140934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Date of Report:    October 16, 2003
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (617) 786-3000
Item 5.    Other Events.
On October 16, 2003, Registrant issued a statement that it had elected Kennett F. Burnes to the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
The press release issued by Registrant in connection with the announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
            (c) Exhibits.
            99.1     Form of press release dated October 16, 2003
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  October 21, 2003
 
Exhibit
99.1     Form of press release dated October 16, 2003
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT), the world's leading specialist in meeting the needs of sophisticated global investors, announced today that Kennett F. Burnes, chairman, president and chief operating officer of Cabot Corporation, has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Boston, MA, October 16, 2003
"We are very pleased to welcome Kennett to the Board of Directors," said David A. Spina, chairman and chief executive officer of State Street Corporation. "His extensive business and legal experience will make him a valuable asset to our Board."
Prior to joining Cabot, Burnes, 60, was a partner at the Boston-based law firm Choate, Hall & Stewart, where he specialized in corporate and business law for nearly 20 years.
"I am delighted to join State Street's Board of Directors," said Mr. Burnes. "State Street's market leadership position, its reputation for outstanding client service, and its strong and dedicated management team make it an important force in global financial services."
Burnes is vice chairman of the Corporation of the Schepens Eye Research Institute. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Cabot Corporation and J.K. Adams Co., Inc. and on the Dana Farber Cancer Institute's Board of Trustees. A member of the Massachusetts Bar Association, Burnes holds both an L.L.B. and B.A. degree from Harvard University.
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is the world's leading specialist in providing sophisticated global investors with investment servicing, investment management, research and analytics and trading services. With $8.8 trillion in assets under custody and $965 billion in assets under management, State Street is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and operates in 23 countries and over 100 markets worldwide. For more information, visit State Street's web site at www.statestreet.com.


