FILE:STT/STT-8K-20040825151133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report:
August 25, 2004
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
   (617) 786-3000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
o
 
Item 8.01.               Other Events.
 
On August 25, 2004, Registrant issued a press release announcing the death of Timothy B. Harbert, Executive Vice President of Registrant and chairman and chief executive officer of the State Street Global Advisors division of Registrant's subsidiary State Street Bank and Trust Company.   The press release issued by Registrant in connection with the announcement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           The press release issued by Registrant in connection with the announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 It is with deep regret that State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) announced this morning the sudden death of Timothy B. Harbert, chairman and CEO of State Street Global Advisors, who passed away of a heart attack last night.
Boston, Mass.,  August 25, 2004
 
"Tim's passion and energy were a driving force in the success of State Street Global Advisors.  We have lost a friend and colleague," said Ronald E. Logue, chairman and CEO of State Street Corporation.  "Our thoughts and prayers are with Tim's family."
 
Alan Brown, group chief investment officer and Peter Leahy, chief operating officer, have been appointed interim co-heads of State Street Global Advisors.  They will report directly to Ron Logue.
 


