FILE:STT/STT-8K-20061020144604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 19, 2006, State Street Corporation (the "Company") entered into a further amendment to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1988, as amended as of September 20, 1990, as amended and restated as of June 18, 1998 and as amended as of April 5, 2004 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to BankBoston, N.A.), as Rights Agent.  Pursuant to this amendment, the "Final Expiration Date" (as defined in the Rights Agreement) was advanced from September 15, 2008 to October 20, 2006.  As a result of this amendment, effective as of the close of business on October 20, 2006, the Rights (as defined in the Rights Agreement) will expire and will no longer be outstanding and the Rights Agreement will terminate by its terms.  The description herein of the amendment to the Rights Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.  A description of the material terms and conditions of the Rights Agreement is contained in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 7, 1998 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
In connection with the termination of the Rights Agreement described in Item 1.01, on October 19, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors approved the filing of Articles of Amendment to the Company's Articles of Organization eliminating from the Company's Articles of Organization all references to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, which had previously been designated in connection with the Rights Agreement.  On October 20, 2006, the Company filed such Articles of Amendment with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  A copy of the Articles of Amendment, which become effective at 5:30 p.m. on October 20, 2006, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On October 19, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's by-laws.  The amendments are designed primarily to conform the by-laws to the provisions of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act (the "MBCA"), which became effective on July 1, 2004 and replaced the Massachusetts Business Corporation Law.
2
Most of the amendments were made to conform the language of the by-laws to that used by the MBCA.  The description herein of the amendments made to the by-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the by-laws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.  The changes made include the following:
                 
conform timing provisions for annual meetings of shareholders to requirements of MBCA;
                 
conform notice provisions for meetings of shareholders to requirements of MBCA;
                 
conform provisions relating to form of proxies to requirements of MBCA;
                 
modify advance notice provisions for meetings of shareholders to conform to MBCA, to set forth certain additional information requirements for submitted proposals and to clarify logistics;
                 
permit directors to take action without a meeting by means of electronic transmission;
                 
change references to "clerk" to references to "secretary" in conformity with MBCA;
                 
broaden manner of notice provisions; and
                 
conform requirements for maintenance of corporate records to MBCA.
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
In connection with the termination of the Rights Agreement described in Item 1.01, on October 19, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors adopted as part of the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines the Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plans that is set forth below.  The Company's Board of Directors reserves the right to interpret and amend the policy.
"Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plans
The Board will only adopt a shareholder rights plan if either:
     Shareholders have approved the adoption of the plan; or
     The Board, including at least a majority of the independent directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary responsibilities, determines that it is in the best interests of State Street's shareholders under the circumstances to adopt a plan without the delay in adoption that would result from seeking shareholder approval; provided that, in such case, the Board will put the plan to a shareholder ratification vote within 12 months of its adoption or the plan will expire.  If the plan is put to a shareholder vote by the Board and ratification of the plan is not approved by a majority
3
of the votes cast on the issue, the plan will be terminated immediately after the vote has been certified by the inspector of elections."
On October 19, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the termination of the Rights Agreement and the adoption of the rights plan policy, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
4
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  October 20, 2006
5
 
 
6

Exhibit 3.1
 
State Street Corporation, having a registered office at 101 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, certifies as follows:
FIRST, Article 4 of the Articles of Organization of the corporation, including the Certificate of Vote of Directors Establishing a Series of a Class of Stock, which was filed with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as an amendment to such Article 4 on February 6, 1992, is amended by this Amendment.
SECOND, this Amendment was duly adopted and approved on October 19, 2006 by the board of directors without shareholder approval and shareholder approval was not required.
THIRD, Article 4 is hereby amended by (i) rescinding the designation of 400,000 shares of Preferred Stock as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, (ii) reclassifying such shares as Preferred Stock and (iii) eliminating from the Articles of Organization all references to Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the preferences, limitations and relative rights thereto.
FOURTH:
(a)           The total shares authorized prior to this Amendment was (i) 500,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, and (ii) 3,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value.
(b)           The total shares authorized upon the effectiveness of this Amendment is (i) 500,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, and (ii) 3,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value.
FIFTH, this Amendment will become effective on October 20, 2006 at 5:30 p.m. Boston time.
 
 
on this 19th day of October, 2006.
I hereby certify that upon examination of these articles of amendment, it appears that the provisions of the General Laws relative thereto have been complied with, and the filing fee in the amount of $           having been paid, said articles are deemed to have been filed with me this                        day of                   20    , at           a.m./p.m.
                                                                                                               
time
Filing fee:  Minimum filing fee $100 per article amended, stock increases $100 per 100,000 shares, plus $100 for each additional 100,000 shares or any fraction thereof.
Jeffrey N. Carp, Esq.
c/o State Street Corporation
State Street Financial Center
One Lincoln Street
Boston, Massachusetts  02111
  (617) 664-5176
Telephone:
Email:  jcarp@statestreet.com
2

Exhibit 3.2
As amended through October 19, 2006
  The annual meeting of shareholders of this corporation shall be held at such time and place as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.  In the event an annual meeting is not held at the time fixed in accordance with these by-laws or the time for an annual meeting is not fixed in accordance with these by-laws to be held within 13 months after the last annual meeting, the corporation may designate a special meeting as a special meeting in lieu of the annual meeting, and such meeting shall have all of the effect of an annual meeting.  The purposes for which an annual meeting is to be held shall be specified in the corporation's notice of the meeting and only business within such purposes may be conducted at the meeting.
SECTION 1. 
Annual Meeting
.
  Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors and shall be called by the secretary, or in the case of the death, absence, incapacity or refusal of the secretary, by any other officer, .  Such demands may suggest a place, date and hour of such meeting, provided, however, that no such demands shall suggest a date not a full business day or an hour not within normal business hours as the date or hour of such meeting and provided, further, that such date and hour shall be determined by the chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors.  Special meetings of the shareholders shall be held at such place as may be determined by the Board of Directors.  The purposes for which a special meeting is to be held shall be described in the corporation's notice of the meeting and only business within such purposes may be conducted at the meeting.
SECTION 2. 
Special Meetings
.
if the holders of at least forty (40) percent, of all the votes entitled to be cast on any issue to be considered at the proposed special meeting sign, date and deliver to the secretary one or more written demands for the meeting describing the purpose for which it is to be held
  Meetings of the shareholders may be held within or without the Commonwealth.
SECTION 3. 
Place of Meetings
.
  Except as hereinafter provided, a written notice of each meeting of shareholders stating the place, date and hour and describing the purpose or purposes thereof shall be given by the secretary or an assistant secretary (or by any other officer who is authorized to provide notice of such meeting) no fewer than seven nor more than 60 days before the meeting date to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat and to each other shareholder to whom, by law or by the articles of organization, the corporation is required to provide such notice.  Such notice shall be given in accordance with Article V of these by-laws.  Whenever notice of a meeting is required to be given to a shareholder by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws, a written waiver of such notice,
SECTION 4. 
Notice
.
1
signed before or after the meeting by such shareholder or such shareholder's attorney thereunto authorized, or transmitted by such shareholder or attorney by a method from which it can be determined that the waiver was authorized by the shareholder or attorney, and delivered to the corporation for inclusion with the records of the meeting, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice for such meeting and all adjourned sessions thereof.  In addition, a shareholder's attendance at a meeting:  (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting; and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
.  Except as otherwise provided by the articles of organization, at any meeting of the shareholders a majority of all shares of stock then issued, outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.  Though less than a quorum be present, any meeting may without further notice be adjourned to a subsequent date or until a quorum be had, and at any such adjourned meeting any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
SECTION 5. 
Action at a Meeting
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of stock present or represented and entitled to vote shall be necessary and sufficient to the determination of any questions brought before the meeting, unless a larger or different vote is required by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws, provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided by the articles of organization, any election by shareholders shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast by the shareholders entitled to vote in such election.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the articles of organization, each outstanding share entitled to vote on any matter shall have one vote for each such share held of record according to the records of the corporation, and a proportionate vote for any fractional share so held, on each matter voted on at a shareholder meeting.  To the extent permitted by law, shareholders may vote either in person or by proxy.  The delivery of a proxy on behalf of a shareholder consistent with telephonic or electronically transmitted instructions obtained pursuant to procedures of the corporation reasonably designed to verify that such instructions have been authorized by such shareholder shall constitute execution and delivery of the proxy by or on behalf of the shareholder.  Except to the extent permitted by law, no proxy dated more than eleven months before the meeting named therein shall be valid, and unless otherwise expressly limited by its terms, a proxy shall entitle the holder or holders of the proxy to vote at any adjournment of such meeting but shall not be valid after the final adjournment of such meeting.  A proxy with respect to stock held in the name of two or more persons shall be valid if authorized by or on behalf of any one of them unless at or prior to the exercise of the proxy the corporation receives written (including by electronic transmission as provided above in this paragraph) notice to the contrary from any one of them.  A proxy purporting to be authorized by or on behalf of a shareholder, if accepted by the corporation in its discretion, shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving its invalidity shall rest on the challenger.
2
Any election of directors by shareholders and the determination of any other action to come before a meeting of shareholders shall be by ballot if so requested by any shareholder at the meeting entitled to vote thereon but need not be otherwise.
 Except as otherwise required by law, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the shareholders may be taken without a meeting if all shareholders entitled to vote on the action consent to the action in writing (including by means of electronic transmission describing the action taken, from which it can be determined that the consent was authorized by the shareholder), which written consents describe the action taken, are signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action, bear the date of the signatures of such shareholders and are delivered to the corporation for inclusion with the records of the meetings of shareholders within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated consent delivered to the corporation.  Each consent shall be treated for all purposes as a vote at a meeting.
SECTION 6. 
Action Without a Meeting
.
SECTION 7.  .
Notice of Shareholder Business and Nomination of Directors
(a)  At any meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (i) specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors, (iii) properly brought before a special meeting upon written demands as provided in Section 2 of this Article I, or (iv) properly requested to be brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder of the corporation who was a shareholder at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures and other requirements of this Section 7, provided, however, that a shareholder may not bring or propose to be brought before a meeting any business under this clause (iv) unless such business is a proper matter for shareholder action under Massachusetts law and such business is within the purposes specified in the corporation's notice of meeting.  The chairman of the Board or other presiding officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and that business shall be disregarded.
           .
Meetings of Shareholders
(b)             For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iv) of paragraph (a) of this Section 7, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of this corporation and, if the shareholder, or the beneficial owner on whose behalf any such nomination(s) or other business is to be made, solicits or participates in the solicitation of proxies in support of such nomination(s) or other business, the shareholder must have timely and accurately indicated its, or such beneficial owner's, intention to do so as provided below.  To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the secretary of this corporation at the principal executive offices of this corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the regularly-scheduled annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the 60th day prior to such annual meeting and (y) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  In no event shall the public
.
Annual Meetings
3
announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a scheduled meeting of shareholders commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.  Such shareholder's notice shall set forth:  (A) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (B) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (C) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination(s) or proposal(s) is made (I) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on this corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, and (II) the class and number of shares of this corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner; and (D) whether either such shareholder or beneficial owner, alone or as part of a group, intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy or to otherwise solicit or participate in the solicitation of proxies in favor of such proposed nominee(s) or proposal(s).  The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may be reasonably be required to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation.
The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may be reasonably be required to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a scheduled meeting of shareholders commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
(c)             Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be properly brought before a special meeting at which the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected either (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who complies with the notice provisions set forth below and is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of such notice and is entitled to vote at such meeting.  Shareholders desiring to nominate persons for election to the Board of Directors at such a special meeting of shareholders shall deliver a shareholder's notice meeting the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 7 to the secretary of this corporation at the principal executive offices of this corporation not earlier than the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the 60th day prior to such special meeting and (y) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. 
.
Special Meetings
4
(d)             For purposes of this Section 7, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by this corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
.
General
Except as otherwise required by law, nothing in this Section 7 shall obligate the corporation or the Board of Directors to include in its notice of meeting or proxy statement for any annual meeting any proposal or other information submitted by a shareholder.
Consistent with the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 7.  Nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to limit this corporation's obligation to include shareholder proposals in its proxy statement if such inclusion is required by Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or any successor Rule.
  The Board of Directors acting by resolution may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of shareholders.  Any annual or special meeting of shareholders may be adjourned by the chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 8. 
Postponement or Adjournment of Annual or Special Meeting.
SECTION 1.    There shall be a board of not less than three nor more than 30 directors.  The number of directors shall be determined from time to time by vote of a majority of the directors then in office.  No director need be a shareholder.  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the articles of organization, each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified, or until such director sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified or there is a decrease in the number of directors.
Number, Election and Term.
No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
.  Any director may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the corporation at its principal office or to the chairman of the Board or to the Board of Directors.  Such resignation shall become effective at the time or upon the happening of the condition, if any, specified therein, or, if no such time or condition is specified, upon its receipt.  A director who has submitted a resignation effective at a future date shall continue to have all the powers of a director of the corporation, including without limitation the power to vote to fill any vacancy or newly created directorship pursuant to Section 4 of this Article II, until such time as such resignation becomes effective.
SECTION 2. 
Resignations
  At any meeting of the shareholders called for the purpose, the notice of which meeting states that purpose, any director may be removed from office only for cause and only by vote of a majority of the shares issued, outstanding and entitled to vote for the election of directors.  At any meeting of the Board of Directors called for the
SECTION 3. 
Removal.
5
purpose, the notice of which meeting states that purpose, any director may be removed from office for cause by vote of a majority of the directors then in office.
  Vacancies and newly created directorships, whether resulting from an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, from the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, or otherwise, may be filled by the shareholders or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and any director so elected shall hold office for a term to expire at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected, and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified or until such director sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified or there is a decrease in the number of directors.
SECTION 4. 
Vacancies.
 Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such times and places within or without the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as the Board of Directors may fix from time to time and, when so fixed, no notice thereof need be given.  Unless otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held without notice on the day of the annual meeting of the shareholders or the special meeting of the shareholders held in lieu thereof, immediately following the annual meeting at the principal office of the corporation.  If in any year a first meeting of the Board of Directors is not held at such time and place, any elections to be held or business to be transacted at such first meeting may be held or transacted at any later meeting of the Board of Directors with the same force and effect as if held or transacted at such firstmeeting.
SECTION 5. 
Regular Meetings
.
  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the president or secretary or by any director.  Such special meetings may be held anywhere within or without the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as designated in the notice of the meeting.  A written notice stating the place, date and hour (but not necessarily the purposes) of the meeting shall be given to each director by the secretary or an assistant secretary or by the officer or director calling the meeting at least forty-eight hours before such meeting in accordance with Article V of these by-laws.  A director may waive any notice before or after the date and time of the meeting.  The waiver shall be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice, or in the form of an electronic transmission by the director to the corporation, and filed with the minutes or corporate records.  A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him or her of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting, or promptly upon his or her arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
SECTION 6. 
Special Meetings
.
  Unless otherwise provided by law, the articles of organization or these by-laws, a quorum of the Board of Directors consists of a majority of the directors then in office, provided always that any number of directors (whether one or more and whether or not constituting a quorum) constituting a majority of directors present at any meeting or at any adjourned meeting may make an adjournment thereof.  If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present is the act of the Board of Directors, unless the articles of organization or these by-laws require the vote of a greater or different number of directors.  A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is considered to have assented to the action taken unless:  (i) he
SECTION 7. 
Action at a Meeting.
6
or she objects at the beginning of the meeting, or promptly upon his or her arrival, to holding it or transacting business at the meeting; (ii) his or her dissent or abstention from the action taken is entered in the minutes of the meeting; or (iii) he or she delivers written notice of his or her dissent or abstention to the presiding officer of the meeting before its adjournment or to the corporation immediately after adjournment of the meeting.  The right of dissent or abstention is not available to a director who votes in favor of the action taken.
  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by the unanimous consent of the members of the Board of Directors.  The action must be evidenced by one or more consents describing the action taken, in writing, signed by each director, or delivered to the corporation by electronic transmission, to the address specified by the corporation for the purpose or, if no address has been specified, to the principal office of the corporation, addressed to the secretary or other officer or agent having custody of the records of proceedings of directors, and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken.  Action taken under this Section 8 is effective when the last director signs or delivers the consent, unless the consent specifies a different effective date.  A consent signed or delivered under this Section 8 has the effect of a meeting vote and may be described as such in any document.
SECTION 8. 
Action Without a Meeting.
.  The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors, who shall have and may exercise (or have exercised under its authority) all the powers of the corporation, except such as by law or by the articles of organization are conferred upon or reserved to the shareholders.  In particular, and without limiting the foregoing, the directors may at any time authorize to be issued all or any part of the unissued capital stock of the corporation from time to time authorized under the articles of organization and may determine, subject to any requirements of applicable law, the consideration for which stock is to be issued and the manner of allocating such consideration between capital and surplus.  In the event of any vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors then in office, except as otherwise provided by law, shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors until the vacancy is filled.
SECTION 9. 
Powers
.  The Board of Directors may appoint from the Board an executive committee or one or more other committees and may delegate to any such committee or committees any or all of the powers of the Board except those which by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws may notbe so delegated.  Such committees shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.  Except as provided by law or as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, each such committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but, unless otherwise determined by the Board in a manner consistent with law or in such rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as may be as is provided in these by-laws for the conduct of the business by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 10. 
Committees
  Unless otherwise provided by law or the articles of organization, members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can simultaneously hear each other during the meeting and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
SECTION 11. 
Presence Through Communications Equipment.
7
  The officers of the corporation shall consist of a president, a treasurer and a secretary and such other officers, including without limitation a chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more vice chairmen of the Board of Directors, a clerk and one or more vice presidents, assistant treasurers, assistant secretaries and assistant clerks, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
SECTION 1. 
Enumeration.
  Any officer may be, but none need be, a shareholder or a director.  The same person may hold at the same time one or more offices.  Any officer may be required by the Board of Directors to give a bond for the faithful performance of his or her duties to the corporation, in such form and with such sureties as the Board of Directors may determine.
SECTION 2. 
Qualifications.
  The president, treasurer and secretary shall be appointed annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of the shareholders.  All other officers shall be chosen or appointed by the Board of Directors at such meeting or at any other time.
SECTION 3. 
Appointments.
  Except as otherwise provided by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws, the chairman, president, treasurer and secretary shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified, or in each case until such officer sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified.  All other officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4. 
Term.
  Any officer may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the corporation at its principal office or to the president or to the secretary.  Such resignation shall be effective at such later time or upon such later happening of a condition, if any, specified therein or, if no such time or condition is specified, upon its delivery.
SECTION 5. 
Resignations.
  Any officer may be removed from office with or without cause by the vote of a majority of the directors then in office.
SECTION 6. 
Removal.
  Vacancies in any office may be filled by or as authorized by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 7. 
Vacancies.
  Unless otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the officers designated below, subject at all times to these by-laws and to the direction and control of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise the respective duties and powers set forth below.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except as otherwise required by law.
SECTION 8. 
Certain Duties and Powers.
  The chairman of the Board, if there is one, shall have such duties and powers as are prescribed by the Board of Directors and, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
(a)          
The Chairman of the Board of Directors.
8
(b)             The chief executive officer, if there is one, shall, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, have general supervision and control of the business of the corporation and have such other duties and powers as are prescribed by the Board of Directors.  If there is no chairman, unless otherwise determined by the Board, the chief executive officer shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer.
  The president shall have such duties and powers as are prescribed by the Board of Directors.  If there is no chairman or chief executive officer, unless otherwise determined by the Board, the president shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
(c)          
The President.
  Except as the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine, the treasurer shall be the chief financial officer of the corporation and shall cause to be kept accurate books of accounts and have such other powers and duties as customarily belong to the office of treasurer or as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
(d)          
The Treasurer.
 The secretary shall keep a record of all proceedings of the shareholders and of all proceedings of the Board of Directors.  In the absence of the secretary from any meeting of the shareholders or from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an assistant secretary, if there be one, otherwise a secretary pro tempore designated by the person presiding at the meeting, shall perform the duties of the secretary at such meeting.
(e)          
The Secretary.
Each officer, subject at all times to these by-laws and to the direction and control of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise, in addition to the duties and powers specifically set forth in these by-laws, such duties and powers as are prescribed by law, such duties and powers as are commonly incident to his or her office and such duties and powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
SECTION 9. 
Other Duties and Powers.
 
  Unless the Board of Directors by resolution otherwise provides, each shareholder of record shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates stating the number and the class and the designation of the series, if any, of the shares held by the shareholder, and otherwise in a form approved by the Board of Directors.  Each certificate shall be signed by the chairman of the Board, the president or a vice president and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer and shall bear the corporate seal.  Such signatures and such seal may be facsimiles.  In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed on such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she was such officer at the time of its issue.
SECTION 1. 
Certificates.
Every certificate issued for shares of stock at a time when such shares are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the articles of organization, these by-laws or any
9
agreement to which the corporation is a party shall have the restriction noted conspicuously on the certificate.
Every certificate issued for shares of stock at a time when the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of stock shall set forth on the face or back of the certificate either (i) a summary of the preferences, limitations and special and relative rights of the shares of each class and series, if any, authorized to be issued, as set forth in the articles of organization, or (ii) a statement of the existence of such preferences, limitations and rights and a statement that the corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
  The Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with law, with the articles of organization or with these by-laws as it deems expedient relative to the issue, transfer and registration of stock certificates.  The Board of Directors may appoint one or more banks or trust companies, including one which is a subsidiary or affiliate of the corporation, as transfer agents and registrars of the shares of stock of the corporation and may require all stock certificates to be signed by such a transfer agent or registrar or both.  The corporation or its agent shall maintain a record of its shareholders, in a form that permits preparation of a list of names and addresses of all shareholders, in alphabetical order, by voting group and by class or series of shares showing the number of shares held by each.  Except as otherwise provided by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws, the corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of any shares of stock as shown on the books of the corporation as the holder of such shares for all purposes, including the right to receive notice of and to vote at any meeting of shareholders and the right to receive any dividend or other distribution in respect of such shares.
SECTION 2. 
Transfers.
  The Board of Directors may fix in advance a time, which shall be not more than 70 days before the date of any meeting of shareholders or the date for the payment of any dividend or the making of any distribution to shareholders or the last day on which the consent or dissent of shareholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose, as the record date for determining the shareholders having the right to notice of and to vote at such meeting and any adjournment thereof or the right to receive such dividend or distribution or the right to give such consent or dissent, and in such case only shareholders of record on suchrecord date shall have such right, notwithstanding any transfer of stock on the books of the corporation after the record date; or without fixing such recorddate the directors may for any of such purposes close the transfer books for all or any part of such period.  If no record date is fixed and the transfer books are not closed, (i) the record date for determining shareholders having the right to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, and (ii) the record date for determining shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors acts with respect thereto.
SECTION 3. 
Record Date.
  The Board of Directors may, except as otherwise provided by law, determine the conditions upon which a new certificate of stock may be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, mutilated or destroyed.
SECTION 4. 
Lost Certificates.
10
Except as otherwise provided in these by-laws or required by law, notices provided for under these by-laws shall conform to the following requirements:
(a)           Notice shall be in writing.  Notice by electronic transmission is written notice.
(b)           Subject to subsection (d) below, notice may be communicated in person; telegraph, teletype or other electronic means; by mail; by electronic transmission; or by messenger or delivery service.
(c)           Written notice, other than notice by electronic transmission, by the corporation to its shareholders, in comprehensible form, is effective upon deposit in the United States mail, if mailed postpaid and correctly addressed to the shareholder's address shown in the corporation's current record of shareholders.
(d)           Written notice by electronic transmission, if in comprehensible form, is effective:  (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number furnished by the addressee for the purpose; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address furnished by the addressee for the purpose; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the addressee of such specific posting, directed to an electronic mail address furnished by the addressee for the purpose, upon the later of (i) such posting and (ii)  the giving of such separate notice; and (4)  if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the addressee in such manner as the addressee shall have specified to the corporation; , , that notices by any shareholder to the corporation shall not be by any of the forms of electronic transmission set forth in clauses (2), (3) or (4) of this subsection (d).  An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation, the transfer agent or other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
provided
however
(e)           Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Article V, written notice, other than notice by electronic transmission, if in comprehensible form, is effective at the earliest of the following:  (1) when received; (2) five days after its deposit in the United States mail, if mailed postpaid and correctly addressed; or (3) on the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested; or if sent by messenger or delivery service, on the date shown on the return receipt signed by or on behalf of the addressee.
  The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and end on the last day of December next following.
SECTION 1. 
Fiscal Year.
  The seal of the corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2. 
Corporate Seal.
  A copy of the corporation's articles of organization, by-laws, resolutions creating one or more classes or series of outstanding shares fixing their relevant rights, preferences and limitations, minutes of all meetings of the
SECTION 3. 
Corporate Records.
11
shareholders for the preceding three years, written communications to shareholders generally within the preceding three years, list of the names and business addresses of the current directors and officers, and most recent annual report for the secretary of state, shall be kept in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts at the principal office of the corporation or at an office of its transfer agent or of its secretary or of its registered agent, if any.
  Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise prescribe and as may be limited by law, the chairman of the Board, if there be one, the president and the treasurer and each of them acting singly shall have full power and authority in the name and behalf of the corporation, subject to the instructions of the Board of Directors, to waive notice of, to attend, act and vote at, and to appoint any person or persons to act as proxy or attorney in fact for this corporation (with or without power of substitution) at, any meeting of shareholders or shareholders of any other corporation or organization, the securities of which may be held by this corporation.
SECTION 4. 
Voting of Securities.
  The provisions of Chapter 110D of the General Laws shall not apply to this corporation on or after January l, 1988, provided that the Board of Directors has and reserves its right under Chapter 110D to subsequently amend these by-laws to accept the provisions of Chapter 110D.
SECTION 5. 
MGL Chapter 110D.
Except as otherwise provided by the articles of organization, these by-laws may be altered, amended or repealed at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of stock then issued, outstanding and entitled to vote on the matter, provided notice of the substance of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal is given with the notice of the meeting.  These by-laws may also be altered, amended or repealed by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, except with respect to any provision which by law, by the articles of organization or by these by-laws requires action by the shareholders.  Action by the shareholders is required to alter, amend or repeal this Article VII so as to increase the power of the directors or reduce the power of the shareholders to alter, amend or repeal these by-laws.  Not later than the time of giving notice of the meeting of the shareholders next following the making, amending or repealing by the directors of any by-law, notice stating the substance of the action taken shall be given to all shareholders entitled to vote on amending the by-laws.  Any action taken by the directors with respect to these by-laws may be amended or repealed by the shareholders.
12

Exhibit 4.1
This AMENDMENT, dated as of October 19, 2006 (the "Amendment"), amends the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1988, as amended as of September 20, 1990, as amended and restated as of June 18, 1998, and as amended as of April 5, 2004 (the "Rights Agreement"), between State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to BankBoston, N.A.), as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
WHEREAS, under Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement without the approval of any holders of Right Certificates in order to, among other thing, make any provisions with respect to the Rights that the Company may deem necessary or desirable, any such supplement or amendment to be evidenced by a writing signed by the Company and the Rights Agent;
WHEREAS, the Company has determined, and has so directed the Rights Agent, to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth herein pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements set forth herein, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.             Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following language:
"The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purposes, together with payment of the Purchase Price for each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the close of business on October 20, 2006 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (the "Redemption Date"), or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24 hereof."
2.             Exhibit B and Exhibit C to the Rights Agreement entitled "Form of Right Certificate" and "Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares," respectively, are hereby amended to replace the words "September 15, 2008" with the words "October 20, 2006" in all places where such words appear.
3.             This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such Commonwealth applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such Commonwealth.
4.             All acts and things necessary to make this Amendment a valid agreement, enforceable according to its terms, have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Company and the Rights Agent have been in all respects duly authorized by the Company and the Rights Agent.
5.             This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
6.             In all respects not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement is hereby ratified, adopted, approved and confirmed.  In executing and delivering this Amendment, the Rights Agent shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities afforded to the Rights Agent under the terms and conditions of the Rights Agreement.
7.             Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and attested, as of the date first set forth above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
October 19, 2006
INVESTORS AND ANALYSTS
Kelley MacDonald
617-664-2888
MEDIA
Hannah Grove
617-664-3377
Carolyn Cichon
617-664-8672
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) announced today that its board of directors voted to terminate the company's shareholder rights plan, which was originally scheduled to expire on September 15, 2008.  Today's decision accelerates the expiration date to October 20, 2006.
Boston, October 19, 2006
The Board also voted to adopt a shareholder rights plan policy.  Under the policy, the Board is required to obtain shareholder approval prior to adopting any future shareholder rights plan unless the Board, including a majority of the independent members of the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary responsibilities, determines that under the circumstances then existing, it would be in the best interest of the shareholders to adopt a shareholder rights plan without the delay that would result from seeking shareholder approval.  If a shareholder rights plan is adopted by the Board without prior shareholder approval, it would expire within one year of adoption unless ratified by the shareholders.
The Board's actions are part of State Street's already strong corporate governance policies and practices, and followed an in-depth evaluation of the issue by the Board and careful consideration of shareholder sentiment.
The Board also voted today to amend State Street's by-laws to conform to the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act.
About State Street Corporation
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is the world's leading specialist in providing institutional investors with investment servicing, investment management and investment research and trading services. With $11.3 trillion in assets under custody and $1.6 trillion in assets under management as of September 30, 2006, State Street operates in 26 countries and more than 100 geographic markets worldwide. For more information, visit State Street's web site at www.statestreet.com.
2


