FILE:STT/STT-8K-20061114085541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
o
           
 
Item 7.01.               Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Beginning at 9:40 a.m. (EST) on November 14, 2006, State Street is undertaking a webcast analyst and investor presentation by its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  A supporting exhibit outlining the presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.  The presentation will be accessible, when made, on State Street's investor relations homepage, at http://www.statestreet.com/stockholder.  Recorded replays of the presentations will also be available on State Street's investor relations homepage at http://www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
 
Item 9.01.               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)   A supporting exhibit outlining the presentation made on November 14, 2006 is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibits.  
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Exhibit 99.1  Form of supporting exhibit outlining the presentation made on November 14, 2006.
 
We prepare our consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or "GAAP."  In order to provide financial information that is comparable from period to period, and to present comparable financial trends with respect to our ongoing business operations, we present supplemental information on an "operating" basis. Operating-basis results are based on GAAP results, but they exclude the impact of significant, non-recurring transactions and activities, and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. We believe that operating-basis financial information facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of our underlying performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The presentation made to analysts and investors on November 14, 2006 provides information about our operating-basis results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005. Following is a reconciliation of GAAP results to operating-basis results of operations.
 
 
 
(1) Fully taxable-equivalent adjusted revenue is a method of presentation in which the tax savings achieved by investing in tax-exempt securities are reflected in interest income with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. This method facilitates the comparison of revenues from both taxable and non-taxable sources. The adjustment is computed using a federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of the related federal tax benefit.
 
(2) Tax-related charges consisted of $59 million, or $.18 per share, primarily related to the impact on income tax expense of the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, and $24 million, or $.07 per share, related to an increased income tax provision for the potential resolution of issues with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to our treatment of certain leveraged leases.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


