FILE:STT/STT-8K-20070620140250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
o
           
 
 
Item 8.01.              Other Events
On June 20, 2007, Investors Financial Services Corp. announced that its stockholders approved the acquisition of Investors Financial by State Street Corporation and that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System also approved the proposed acquisition.  The press release jointly issued by State Street and Investors Financial in connection with the announcement is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
99.1         Press release dated June 20, 2007.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
- Investors Financial Services Corp. (NASDAQ: IFIN) announced today that its stockholders approved the acquisition of the Company by State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT).  In addition, the Company announced that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System also approved the proposed acquisition.  Investors Financial Services Corp. stockholders will receive 0.906 shares of State Street common stock for each share of Investors Financial Services Corp. common stock held at closing, which is expected to occur in early July.  The transaction remains subject to other regulatory approvals and closing conditions.
BOSTON, MA, June 20, 2007
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is the world's leading provider of financial services to institutional investors including investment servicing, investment management and investment research and trading. With $12.3 trillion in assets under custody and $1.8 trillion in assets under management at March 31, 2007, State Street operates in 26 countries and more than 100 geographic markets and employs 21,950 worldwide. For more information, visit State Street's web site at www.statestreet.com or call 877/639-7788 (NEWS STT) toll-free in the United States and Canada, or +1 678/999-4577 outside those countries.
Investors Financial Services Corp. provides services for a variety of financial asset managers including mutual fund complexes, investment advisors, hedge funds, banks and insurance companies.  The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Investors Bank & Trust Company, provides core services including global custody, multicurrency accounting, fund administration and middle office outsourcing, as well as value-added services including foreign exchange, cash management, securities lending and investment advisory services.  Offices are located in the United States, Canada, Cayman Islands, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg.  Visit Investors Financial Services Corp. on the web at www.ibtco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about the proposed merger between State Street Corporation and Investors Financial Services Corp. Those statements are based on current assumptions, forecasts and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those results. These
risks and uncertainties include the ability to obtain regulatory approvals and to satisfy other conditions necessary to complete the merger.  Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements, are set forth in State Street's and Investors Financial Services Corp.'s respective  annual reports on Form 10-K for their fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, particularly in Item 1A, "Risk Factors",and State Street's and Investors Financial Services Corp.'s respective subsequent SEC filings which should be read before making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date hereof, June 20, 2007, and neither State Street nor Investors Financial Services Corp. will undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.


