FILE:STT/STT-8K-20070430060357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 30, 2007
 
State Street Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(617) 786-3000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws that involve inherent risks and uncertainties.  These statements relate to two uncompleted securities offerings.  These statements are subject to completion of the respective securities offerings.  Completion of these securities offerings requires, among other things, the satisfaction  or waiver of the conditions to closing specified in the applicable underwriting agreement, including the absence of a material adverse change to State Street Corporation, and other customary conditions.  Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements.  The forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and State Street Corporation will not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
Item 8.01 Other Events
Floating Rate Capital Securities
On April 23, 2007, State Street Corporation and State Street Capital Trust IV, a wholly owned subsidiary of State Street, entered into an Underwriting Agreement with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, for the sale of $800,000,000 (in aggregate liquidation amount) of Floating Rate Capital Securities, liquidation amount $1,000 per security, of State Street Capital Trust IV registered pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR (SEC File No. 333-132606).  Each capital security offered will represent an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust.  The only assets of the Trust will be State Street's Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures with an initial scheduled maturity date of June 15, 2037 and an initial final repayment date of June 1, 2067.
The Trust will pay distributions on the capital securities only from the proceeds, if any, of interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures.  The junior subordinated debentures will pay interest at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 1.00% from and including April 30, 2007 to but excluding June 15, 2047 and one-month LIBOR plus 1.99% thereafter.  State Street has the right, on one or more occasions in specified circumstances, to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures for one or more interest periods that do not exceed ten years without giving rise to an event of default.  State Street may extend at its option in specified circumstances the initial scheduled maturity date of the junior subordinated debenture to June 15, 2047 and the final repayment date of the junior subordinated debentures to June 1, 2077.  At State Street's option, the junior subordinated debentures may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time on or after June 15, 2012, or earlier, in whole, but not in part, in the event of significant tax, rating agency, capital treatment or investment company events, for a
2
redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption.  The Trust will use the proceeds for redemption payments to redeem a like amount of capital securities.
The junior subordinated debentures will be subordinated to all of State Street's existing and future senior, subordinated and junior subordinated debt, including the junior subordinated debentures issued by State Street in connection with prior issuances of capital securities issued by its capital trusts, except that the junior subordinated debentures will rank with any future debt that by its terms is not superior in right of payment and any trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business.  The junior subordinated debentures will be effectively subordinated to all liabilities of State Street's subsidiaries.  As a result, the capital securities also will be effectively subordinated to the same debt and liabilities.  State Street will provide a limited guarantee of the capital securities on a subordinated basis.
pari passu
The offering is scheduled to be completed on April 30, 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
Copies of the Underwriting Agreement, opinions of counsel, the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, the Floating Rate Capital Securities Certificate, the Guarantee Agreement, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Replacement Capital Covenant, or forms thereof, associated with this offering are filed with this report and are incorporated by reference into the registration statement.
Fixed and Floating Rate Notes
On April 25, 2007, State Street entered into an Underwriting Agreement with Lehman Brothers Inc., as representative of the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, for the sale of $450,000,000 in principal amount of Fixed Rate Notes due April 30, 2017 and $250,000,000 in principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2012, each issued by State Street and registered pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR (SEC File No. 333-132606).  The fixed rate notes and the floating rate notes are collectively referred to as the notes.  The fixed rate notes will bear interest at a rate of 5.375% per annum.  The floating rate notes will bear interest at a rate equal to the then applicable U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR rate plus 0.10% per annum.
The offering is scheduled to be completed on April 30, 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
Copies of the Underwriting Agreement, an opinion of counsel, the Fixed Rate Note Certificate and the Floating Rate Note Certificate, or forms thereof, associated with this offering are filed with this report and are incorporated by reference into the registration statement.  State Street may not redeem the notes prior to their maturity.  There is no sinking fund for the notes.  The notes are unsecured debt obligations of State Street.
3
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
(d)
                
Underwriting Agreement dated April 23, 2007 among State Street Capital Trust IV, State Street Corporation and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as Representatives of the underwriters named therein.
1.1
                                
Underwriting Agreement dated April 25, 2007 between State Street Corporation and Lehman Brothers Inc., as Representative of the underwriters named therein.
1.2
                                
Form of Second Supplemental Indenture, between State Street Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, supplementing the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated December 15, 1996 between State Street Corporation and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan & Co. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to the First National Bank of Chicago))).
4.1
                                
Form of Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for State Street Capital Trust IV.
4.2
                                
Form of Floating Rate Capital Securities Certificate of State Street Capital Trust IV (included as Exhibit B to Exhibit 4.2).
4.3
                                
Form of Guarantee Agreement of State Street Corporation relating to the Floating Rate Capital Securities.
4.4
                                
Form of Fixed Rate Note of State Street Corporation.
4.5
                                
Form of Floating Rate Note of State Street Corporation.
4.6
                                
Opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP relating to the validity of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and Guarantee.
5.1
                                
Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. relating to the validity of the Floating Rate Capital Securities.
5.2
                                
Opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP relating to the validity of the Fixed Rate Notes and the Floating Rate Notes.
5.3
                                
4
 
Tax Opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP relating to the Floating Rate Capital Securities.
8.1
                                
Consent of Ropes & Gray LLP (included in Exhibit 5.1).
23.1
                          
Consent of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. (included in Exhibit 5.2).
23.2
                          
Consent of Ropes & Gray LLP (included in Exhibit 5.3).
23.3
                          
Consent of Ropes & Gray LLP (included in Exhibit 8.1).
23.4
                          
Form of Replacement Capital Covenant of State Street Corporation relating to the Floating Rate Capital Securities.
99.1
                          
5
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
6
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
7

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
April 23, 2007
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
,
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,
Eleven Madison Avenue,
New York, N.Y. 10010-3629
Dear Sirs:
1.  . State Street Capital Trust IV (the ""), a Delaware statutory trust, and State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agree with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the "") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $800,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of Floating Rate Capital Securities, liquidation amount $1,000 per Capital Security (the ""), as set forth in Schedule A.  The Capital Securities will represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trust.  The Capital Securities will be guaranteed by the Company as to the payment of distributions and as to payments on liquidation or redemption, to the extent set forth in the guarantee agreement, dated as of April 30, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "").  The Capital Securities are to be issued under the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for the Trust, to be dated as of April 30, 2007 (the ""), between the Company, as depositor, U.S. Bank National Association, as property trustee, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein each as a Trustee (collectively, the ""), which is substantially in the form filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement (as defined below).  The proceeds of the sale by the Trust of the Capital Securities to the public and its common securities, aggregate liquidation amount $10,000, to the Company are to be used by the Trust to purchase $800,010,000 aggregate principal amount of floating rate junior subordinated debentures (the "") of the Company.   The common securities of the Trust are herein called the "".  The Company will own all the Common Securities of the Trust.  The Debentures are to be issued pursuant to the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996, between the Company and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago))) (the ""), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture to be dated as of April 30, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association as trustee (the "").
Introductory
Trust
Company
Underwriters
Capital Securities
Guarantee
Guarantee Trustee
Trust Agreement
Trustees
Debentures
Common Securities
Original Indenture
Indenture
Indenture Trustee
2.  .  The Company and the Trust, jointly and severally with the Company, represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Trust
(a)  .  The Company has filed with the Commission an automatic shelf registration statement as defined under Rule 405 of the Act (as defined below) on Form S-3ASR (No. 333-132606) on March 21, 2006, including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Capital Securities and the
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Debentures under the Act, which became effective upon filing.  The "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified.  The "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time.  For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 3:00 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to Capital Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Capital Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Capital Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Capital Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Capital Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement.  For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
2
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations thereunder, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , , that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by an Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
(b) 
Compliance. 
provided
however
.  (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Capital Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement (other than Form T-1 filings filed as exhibits thereto) conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
(c) 
Securities Act Requirements
(d)  .  (i) .  (A)  At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, and (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405, and, as a result, the Trust is also entitled to register the Capital Securities on the Registration Statement.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii)  .  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
3
and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Capital Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Capital Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
(iii)  .  The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  If at any time
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
(iv)  .  The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Capital Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
(e)  .  (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Capital Securities and (ii) at the date of the this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(f)  .  As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated April 23, 2007, including the base prospectus, dated March 21, 2006 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally),and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
(g)  .  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus does not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement.  If, at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date and following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC ("") and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Credit Suisse
4
supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package; and, since the dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt (other than (i) issuances of capital stock upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights issued under equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on March 19, 2007, (ii) upon earn-outs of performance shares, (iii) upon repayment of long-term debt in accordance with its terms, (iv) upon conversions of convertible securities, (v) issuances of capital stock under deferred stock compensation plans, restricted stock programs and saving-related purchase plans, in the case of (i) through (v) above, which were outstanding on the date of the latest balance sheet included or incorporated by reference into the General Disclosure Package, and (vi) repurchases of the Company's Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, in accordance with the Company's stock repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
(h) 
No Material Change in Business. 
Each of the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "")  has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or trust company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or trust company for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
(i) 
Good Standing. 
Bank
The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non assessable; and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Bank have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
(j) 
Capitalization. 
he Trust has been duly created and is validly existing as a statutory trust in good standing under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act with the power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and the Trust has not conducted any business to date other than as contemplated by the General Disclosure Package and this Agreement, and the Trust will not conduct any business in the future that would be inconsistent with the Trust Agreement and the description of the Trust set forth in the General Disclosure Package; the Trust is not a party to or bound by any agreement or instrument other than this Agreement, the Trust Agreement, and the agreements and instruments contemplated by the Trust Agreement; the Trust has no liabilities or obligations other than those arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Trust Agreement and described in the General Disclosure Package; based on expected operations and current law, the Trust is not or will
(k)  T
The Trust. 
5
not be classified as an association taxable as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes; and the Trust is not a party to or subject to any action, suit or proceeding of any nature.
(l)  The Capital Securities have been duly authorized by the Trust, and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor as provided herein, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, and will be fully paid and non-assessable, undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust; the issuance of the Capital Securities is not subject to preemptive or other similar rights; the Capital Securities have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and will have the rights set forth in the Trust Agreement, and the terms of the Capital Securities are valid and binding on the Trust; the holders of the Capital Securities (the "") will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; the Trust Agreement has been duly authorized and, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustees, will constitute a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; and the Capital Securities and the Trust Agreement will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Capital Securities. 
Securityholders
(m)  The Common Securities of the Trust have been duly and validly authorized by the Trust, and, when issued and delivered by the Trust to the Company against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, and will be fully paid and non-assessable, undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus; the issuance of the Common Securities is not subject to preemptive or other similar rights; and at the Closing Date, all of the issued and outstanding Common Securities of the Trust will be directly owned by the Company free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity.
Common Securities. 
(n)  The Debentures have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and, when issued and delivered by the Company to the Trust against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles; and the Debentures will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Debentures. 
(o)  Each of the Guarantee, the Trust Agreement and the Indenture has been duly and validly authorized by the Company (the Guarantee, the Debentures, the Trust Agreement and the Indenture being collectively referred to as the ""), and, when validly executed and delivered by the Company and, in the case of the Guarantee, by the Guarantee Trustee, in the case of the Trust Agreement, by the Trustee and, in the case of the Indenture, by the Indenture Trustee, will each constitute a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; the Debentures are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Guarantor Agreements have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Guarantor Agreements. 
Guarantor Agreements
(p)  The issue and sale of the Capital Securities and Common Securities (herein collectively called the "") by the Trust and the issue and sale of the Debentures by the Company, the execution and delivery
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions. 
Securities
Trust
6
of the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Trust Securities, the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein and herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any security interest, lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to, any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or the Bank is a party or by which the Company or the Bank is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or the Bank is subject (except as would individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By laws) of the Company or the Bank or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, the Bank or any of their properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Trust Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement (including the issuance of the Debentures), except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing Date, obtained under the Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Capital Securities by the Underwriters.
.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Trust.
(q) 
of Agreement
Authorization
Neither the Company nor the Bank nor the Trust is in violation of its organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
(r) 
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts.  
Material Adverse Effect
(s)   The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Summary of Terms of the Capital Securities", "Summary of Terms of the Debentures", "Replacement Capital Covenant", "Guarantee of Capital Securities", "Description of Junior Subordinated Debentures", "Description of Capital Securities", "Common Securities", "Description of the Capital Securities Guarantees" and "Relationship Among the Capital Securities, the Corresponding Junior Subordinated Debentures and the Capital Securities Guarantees", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Trust Securities, the Guarantee and the Debentures, and under the caption "Underwriting", insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair, in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure.
(t)  Other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated legal or government actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including the Trust) is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually and in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material
Litigation. 
7
adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(u)  Neither the Company nor the Trust is and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Trust Securities, will be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Investment Company Act. 
(v)  .  None of the Company, the Trust, or any of their affiliates does business with the government of Cuba or with any person or affiliate located in Cuba within the meaning of Section 517.075, Florida Statutes.
Embargo Against Cuba
(w)  Ernst & Young, LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Independence of Accountants. 
(x)  The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended; and the Company and the Bank are in compliance with, and conduct their respective businesses in conformity with, all applicable laws and governmental regulations governing bank holding companies, banks and subsidiaries of bank holding companies, respectively, except failures to so comply or be in conformity with that could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse change on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Bank Holding Company. 
days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, Sarbanes-Oxley or Exchange Act, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(y)  .  Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, the Bank and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in material compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.  The Internal Controls are overseen by the Examining and Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
3.  .  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Trust agrees to sell to the several Underwriters the Capital Securities, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Trust, at a purchase price per security of $1,000, plus accrued distributions, if any, from April 30, 2007, the principal amount of Capital Securities as set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Capital Securities
8
The Trust, or the Company on behalf of the Trust, will deliver the Capital Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to Credit Suisse drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on April 30, 2007, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "".  For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all Capital Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Capital Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the above office at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
As compensation for the Underwriters' commitments, the Company will pay to the Representatives for the Underwriters' proportionate accounts the sum of $10.00 per Capital Security times the total number of the Capital Securities purchased by each Underwriter on the Closing Date. Such payment will be made on the Closing Date with respect to Capital Securities purchased on the Closing Date.
4.  .  It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Capital Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5.  . The Company and the Trust, jointly and severally, agree with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company and the Trust
The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement.  The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
(a) 
Filing of Prospectuses. 
the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company or the Trust of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of Capital Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose.  The Company and the Trust will use their best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
(b)  .  For so long as a prospectus relating to the Capital Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, the Company or the Trust will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
(c)  .  If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Capital Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly, on behalf of
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
9
the Trust, prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at the Company's expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance.  Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
(d)  .  For so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Capital Securities, the Company and the Trust will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of any annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company or the Trust with the Commission; and the Company and the Trust will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company or the Trust filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company or the Trust as the Representatives may reasonably request.  However, so long as the Company or the Trust is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), they are not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
(e)    The Company and the Trust will promptly from time to time take such action as the Representatives may reasonably request to qualify the Capital Securities for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Capital Securities; that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided
(f)    Prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the New York business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company and the Trust will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Underwriters written and electronic copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in New York City in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(g)  The Company will make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c)), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (and the Trust if required by the Commission) (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158).
Rule 158. 
(h)    During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the business day after the date of the Closing Date, (x) the Trust shall not, and in the case of the Company shall not and shall not cause the Trust to, offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, grant any option to purchase, make any short sale or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any securities of the Trust that are substantially similar to the Capital Securities, and (y) the Company shall not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, grant any option to purchase, make any short sale or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder,
Restrictions on Sales of Capital Securities.
10
any securities of the Company that are substantially similar to the Debentures, without the prior written consent of the Representatives.
(i)    The Trust shall use the net proceeds received by it, and the Company shall cause the Trust to use the net proceeds received by it, from the sale of the Capital Securities, and the Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Debentures, pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the General Disclosure Package under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds.
(j)    If the Company and the Trust elect to rely upon Rule 462(b), the Company and the Trust shall file a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement with the Commission in compliance with Rule 462(b) by no later than the second business day following the date of this Agreement, and the Company shall at the time of filing either pay to the Commission the filing fee for the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement or give irrevocable instructions for the payment of such fee pursuant to Rule 111(b) under the Act.
Rule 462(b).
(k)    The Company will issue the Guarantee and the Debentures concurrently with the issue and sale of the Trust Securities.
Issuances by the Company.
(l)    The Company, upon request of any Underwriter, will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to such Underwriter an electronic version of the Company's trademarks, servicemarks and corporate logo for use on the website, if any, operated by such Underwriter for the purpose of facilitating the on-line offering of the Capital Securities (the ""); , that the License shall be used solely for the purpose described above, is granted without any fee and may not be assigned or transferred.
Company License.
License
provided, however
(m)    The Company will pay or caused to be paid the following:  (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's and the Trust's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of the Capital Securities under the Act and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing any Agreement among Underwriters, this Agreement, any Guarantor Agreement, any Blue Sky Memoranda, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Capital Securities or the Debentures; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Capital Securities for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(d) hereof, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky survey(s); (iv) any fees charged by securities rating services for rating the Capital Securities or the Debentures; (v) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, any required review by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the Capital Securities; (vi) the cost of preparing the Capital Securities and the Debentures; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee and the Indenture Trustee and any of their respective agents, and the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee and the Indenture Trustee; and (viii) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of their obligations hereunder and under the Guarantor Agreements which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section.  It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Capital Securities by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
Payment of Expenses.
(n)  .  Neither the Trust nor the Company will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to
Absence of Manipulation
11
cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Trust or the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Capital Securities.
as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "."  Each of the Company and the Trust represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433,and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
6.  .  (a) .  Each of the Company and the Trust represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Capital Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus,"
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
(b)  .  The Company will prepare, or cause to be prepared, a final term sheet relating to the Capital Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Capital Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by Credit Suisse, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering of the Capital Securities.  Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.  The Company and the Trust also consent to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Capital Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Capital Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
7.  . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Capital Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Trust of each of their obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof.  No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or the Trust or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.  All requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
(a) 
Filing of Prospectus. 
 In rendering such opinion, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts upon the opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP, counsel for the Company referred to below.
(b)  The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters. 
12
(c)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Counsel for Company
Each of the Company and the Bank is validly existing as a corporation or chartered trust company in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and the Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby and hereby.
(i)  . 
Good Standing of the Company and Bank
he Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
(ii)  .  T
Capitalization of the Company
  To the best of such counsel's knowledge and other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending, threatened or contemplated legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including the Trust) is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(iii) 
Litigation.
  The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company; and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
(iv) 
Authorization.
The Debentures have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and, when issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered by the Company to the Trust against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles.
(v) 
Issuances by the Company. 
  Each of the Guarantor Agreements has been duly authorized by the Company, has been executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
(vi) 
Guarantor Agreements.
(vii)  .  Neither the Company nor the Trust is and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of Capital Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, neither will be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act.
Investment Company Act
The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto prior to the Closing Date (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all
(viii) 
Compliance. 
13
material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations thereunder.
Although such counsel does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus, such counsel has no reason to believe that, as of the Effective Time relating to the Capital Securities or as of the Closing Date, the Registration Statement or any further amendment thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that, as of its date, or the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that, as of the Applicable Time or as of the Closing Date, the General Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; to the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Act; and they do not know of any amendment to the Registration Statement required to be filed or of any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus which are not filed or incorporated by reference or described as required.
(ix) 
Disclosure.
(d)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Ropes & Gray LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Ropes and Gray
(i)  Each of the Company and the Bank is validly existing as a corporation or chartered trust company in good standing with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and the Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby and hereby.
Good Standing of the Company and the Bank. 
(ii)  The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization. 
The Capital Securities have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
(iii) 
Issuances by the Trust. 
 The Debentures have been duly authorized by the Company, and, when issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered by the Company to the Trust against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity
(iv) 
Issuances by the Company. 
14
principles; and the Debentures will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
(v)    Each of the Guarantor Agreements has been duly authorized by the Company, has been executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; the Guarantor Agreements have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and the Debentures are entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture.
Guarantor Agreements.
  The issue and sale of the Securities being delivered at the Closing by the Trust, the issue by the Company of the Guarantee and the Debentures, the execution and delivery of the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and the compliance with all of the provisions of the Guarantor Agreements and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein and herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any material debt instrument of the Company or the Bank or other contract or other agreement listed in an attachment to such opinion to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation known to such counsel of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company.
(vi) 
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions.
. No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Capital Securities being delivered at the Closing or the consummation by the Company or the Trust of the transactions contemplated by the Guarantor Agreements or this Agreement, except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing, obtained under the Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Capital Securities by the Underwriters.
(vii) 
Consents
(viii)  The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Summary of Terms of the Capital Securities", "Summary of Terms of the Debentures", "Replacement Capital Covenant", "Guarantee of Capital Securities", "Description of Junior Subordinated Debentures", "Description of Capital Securities", "Common Securities", "Description of the Capital Securities Guarantees" and "Relationship Among the Capital Securities, the Corresponding Junior Subordinated Debentures and the Capital Securities Guarantees", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Trust Securities, the Guarantee and the Debentures, and under the caption "Underwriting", insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair, in all material respects
Accurate Disclosure. 
The Registration Statement, as of the Effective Time relating to the Capital Securities, and the Final Prospectus, as of its date, and any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), as of this date, comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; although they do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus, except for those referred to in the opinion in subsection (viii) of this Section 7(d), they have no reason to believe that, as of the Effective Time relating to the Capital Securities or as of the Closing
(ix) 
Disclosure. 
15
Date, the Registration Statement or any further amendment thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that, as of its date, or the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that, as of the Applicable Time or as of the Closing Date, the General Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; to the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Act; and they do not know of any amendment to the Registration Statement required to be filed or of any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus which are not filed or incorporated by reference or described as required.
(e)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., special Delaware Counsel for the Trust, to the effect that:
Opinion of Delaware Counsel
(i)  The Trust has been duly created and is validly existing as a statutory trust in good standing under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and, under the Trust Agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, has the trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business, all as set forth in the Trust Agreement, and all filings required under the laws of the State of Delaware with respect to the creation and valid existence of the Trust as a statutory trust have been made.
Good Standing. 
(ii)  The Trust Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company and the Trustees, and is enforceable against the Company and the Trustees, in accordance with its terms, and the terms of the Capital Securities as set forth in the Trust Agreement, to the extent they are obligations of the Trust, are valid and binding obligations of the Trust in accordance with the terms of the Trust Agreement, all subject to the effect upon the Trust Agreement of (a) bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, receivership, reorganization, liquidation, fraudulent conveyance or transfer and other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors generally, (b) principles of equity, including applicable law relating to fiduciary duties (regardless of whether considered and applied in a proceeding in equity or at law), and (c) the effect of applicable public policy on the enforceability of provisions relating to indemnification or contribution.
The Trust Agreement. 
(iii)  Under the Trust Agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the Trust has the trust power and authority to (a) execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement, and (b) issue and perform its obligations under the Capital Securities and the Common Securities.
Power and Authority. 
(iv)  Under the Trust Agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the execution and delivery by the Trust of this Agreement, the performance by the Trust of its
Authorization. 
16
obligations hereunder and the purchase of the Debentures have been duly authorized by all necessary trust action on the part of the Trust.
(v)  The Capital Securities have been duly authorized for issuance under the Trust Agreement, and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor as provided in this Agreement and the Trust Agreement, will be validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable, undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust; under the Trust Agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the issuance of the Capital Securities is not subject to preemptive rights; the Capital Securities will be entitled to the benefits of the Trust Agreement; the Securityholders, as beneficial owners of the Trust, will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; provided that such counsel may note that the holders may be obligated, pursuant to the Trust Agreement, to (a) provide indemnity and/or security in connection with and pay taxes or governmental charges arising from transfers or exchanges of Capital Securities Certificates (as defined in the Trust Agreement) and the issuance of replacement Capital Securities Certificates and (b) provide security and indemnity in connection with requests of or directions to the Property Trustee (as defined in the Trust Agreement) to exercise its rights and remedies under the Trust Agreement.
Capital Securities. 
(vi)  The Common Securities of the Trust have been duly and validly authorized by the Trust Agreement; and under the Trust Agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, the issuance of the Common Securities is not subject to preemptive rights.
Common Securities. 
(vii)  The issue and sale of the Capital Securities and the Common Securities by the Trust, the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Trust, the compliance by the Trust with all of the provisions of the Capital Securities, the Trust Agreement and this Agreement, the purchase by the Trust of the Debentures in the circumstances contemplated by the Trust Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein contemplated do not violate (a) the Trust Agreement or the Certificate of Trust of the Trust, or (b) any applicable Delaware law, rule or regulation.
No Conflicts. 
(viii)  No authorization, approval, consent or order of any Delaware court or Delaware governmental authority or Delaware agency is required to be obtained by the Trust solely in connection with the issuance and sale of the Capital Securities and the Common Securities.
No Required Consents. 
(ix)  Assuming that the Trust derives no income from or connected with sources within the State of Delaware and has no assets, activities (other than having a Delaware trustee as required by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and filing documents with the Delaware Secretary of State) or employees in the State of Delaware and that the Trust is treated as a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, the Securityholders (not otherwise subject to income tax by the State of Delaware) will have no liability for income taxes imposed by the State of Delaware solely as a result of their participation in the Trust, and the Trust will not be liable for any income tax imposed by the State of Delaware.
No Liability for Taxes. 
(f)    The Representatives shall have received the opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Ropes & Gray LLP, special tax counsel for the Company and the Trust, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that such firm confirms its opinion set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus under the captions "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" and "ERISA Considerations", insofar as such statements constitute a summary of matters of law or legal conclusions relating thereto, are accurate summaries, in all material respects, of the matters discussed therein, subject to the limitations stated therein.  Ropes & Gray LLP may also state in their opinion that, insofar as that opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of the officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Tax Opinion.
17
(g)  .  The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder and substantially in the form of Schedule C hereto (except that, in the letter dated on the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in paragraph 4 of such letter shall be a date no more than three days prior to such Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
(h)  .  Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Capital Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any securities of the Company or the Trust by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any securities of the Company or the Trust (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii)  any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Capital Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal, New York or Massachusetts State authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Capital Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Capital Securities.
No Material Adverse Change
(i)  .  The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated such Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company and the Trust in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company and the Trust have each complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus (which shall include the financial data included in the earnings press release filed with the Commission on April 17, 2007), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably require.  Credit Suisse may in its sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
18
8.  .  (a)  .  The Company and the Trust, jointly and severally, will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that neither the Company nor the Trust will be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter:  the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
(b)  .  Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement, the Trust and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Trust within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
(c)  .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of
Actions against Parties; Notification
19
  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation.
(d)  .  If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Capital Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Trust bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company and the Trust or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Capital Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.  The Company, the Trust and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
Contribution
20
9.  .  If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase the Capital Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate liquidation amount of the Capital Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total aggregate liquidation amount that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, Credit Suisse may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Capital Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Capital Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date.  If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate liquidation amount of the Capital Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total aggregate liquidation amount of the Capital Securities that the applicable Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to Credit Suisse and the Company for the purchase of such Capital Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter, the Trust or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section.  Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company and the Trust shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Capital Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Trust as provided herein, the Company and the Trust, jointly and severally, will reimburse the Underwriters through the Company for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Company, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Capital Securities not so delivered, but the Company and the Trust shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; that all parties shall only be responsible for their own out-of pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, if any Capital Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein for any of the following reasons: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal or New York or Massachusetts State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or; (iv) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere.  In addition, if any Capital Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
10.  .  The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Trust, the Company or its officers and the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Trust, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Capital Securities.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
provided, however;
11.  . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, at Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629, Attention:  LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company or the Trust, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at the address or facsimile number of the Company set forth in the Registration Statement, Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
21
12.  . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13.  .  The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship. 
(a)  .  The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of the Capital Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company, the Trust and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Guarantor Agreements or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or is advising the Company or the Trust on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b)  .  The price of the Capital Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company and the Trust following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and each of the Company and the Trust is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Guarantor Agreements;
Arms' Length Negotiations
(c)  .  Each of the Company and the Trust has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Trust and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company or the Trust by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d)  .  Each of the Company and the Trust waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the process leading thereto and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company or the Trust in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company or the Trust, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company or the Trust.
Waiver
16. 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
Company and the Trust irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Each of the Company and the Trust hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  Each of the
22
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company, the Trust and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
SCHEDULE A
 
1.
General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
             
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following document:
1.  Final term sheet, dated April 23, 2007, a copy of which is attached here.
2.
Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
             
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
None

Exhibit 1.2
EXECUTION COPY
April 25, 2007
LEHMAN BROTHERS INC.
As Representative of the Several Underwriters,
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10019
Dear Sirs:
1.  .  State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the "") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $450 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.375% Fixed Rate Notes due April 30, 2017 (the "") and $250 million in aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2012 (the "" and, together with the Fixed Rate Notes, the "").  The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the Indenture (the ""), dated as of August 2, 1993, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor senior trustee (the "").
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Fixed Rate Notes
Floating Rate Notes
Notes
Indenture
Indenture Trustee
2.  .  The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a)  .  The Company has filed with the Commission an automatic shelf registration statement as defined under Rule 405 of the Act (as defined below) on Form S-3ASR (No. 333-132606) on March 21, 2006, including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Notes under the Act, which became effective upon filing.  The "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified.  The "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time.  For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 12:50 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Notes means the time of the first contract of sale for the Notes.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Notes and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Notes in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Notes that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement.  For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b)  The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations thereunder, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , , that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the
Compliance. 
provided
however
2
Company by an Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
(c)  .  (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Notes and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement (other than Form T-1 filings filed as exhibits thereto) conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Securities Act Requirements
(d)  .  (i) .  (A)  At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, and (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii)  .  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii)  .  The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  If at any time and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representative, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representative, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representative of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
3
(iv)  .  The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
(e)  .  (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Notes and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(f)  .  As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated April 25, 2007, including the base prospectus, dated March 21, 2006 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally),and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
(g)  .  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus does not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement.  If, at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date and following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representative and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package; and, since the dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt (other than (i) issuances of capital stock upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights issued under equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on March 19, 2007, (ii) upon earn-outs of performance shares, (iii) upon repayment of long-term debt in accordance with its terms, (iv) upon conversions of convertible securities, (v) issuances of capital stock under deferred stock compensation plans, restricted stock programs and saving-related purchase plans, in the case of (i) through (v) above, which were outstanding on the date of the latest balance sheet included or incorporated by reference into the General Disclosure Package, (vi) repurchases of the Company's Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, in accordance with the Company's stock repurchase
(h) 
No Material Change in Business. 
4
program authorized by its Board of Directors, and (vii) the proposed issuance by State Street Capital Trust IV, a subsidiary of the Company, of up to $800,010,000 of capital securities and common securities as described in the prospectus supplement to the Registration Statement dated April 23, 2007) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
Each of the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "")  has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or trust company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or trust company for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
(i) 
Good Standing. 
Bank
The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non assessable; and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Bank have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
(j) 
Capitalization. 
(k)  The Notes have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and, when issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles; and the Notes will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Notes. 
(l)  The Indenture has been duly and validly authorized by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; the Notes are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Indenture. 
(m)  The issue and sale of the Notes by the Company, the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein and herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any security interest, lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to, any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or the Bank is a party or by which the Company or the Bank is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or the Bank is subject (except as would individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management,
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions. 
5
financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By laws) of the Company or the Bank or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, the Bank or any of their properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Notes or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Indenture and this Agreement, except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing Date, obtained under the Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Notes by the Underwriters.
.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(n) 
of Agreement
Authorization
(o)  Neither the Company nor the Bank is in violation of its organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts.  
Material Adverse Effect
(p)   The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes" and "Description of the Debt Securities", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes, and under the caption "Underwriting", insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair, in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure.
(q)  Other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated legal or government actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually and in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Litigation. 
(r)  The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Investment Company Act. 
(s)  .  Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates does business with the government of Cuba or with any person or affiliate located in Cuba within the meaning of Section 517.075, Florida Statutes.
Embargo Against Cuba
(t)  Ernst & Young, LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Independence of Accountants. 
6
(u)  The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended; and the Company and the Bank are in compliance with, and conduct their respective businesses in conformity with, all applicable laws and governmental regulations governing bank holding companies, banks and subsidiaries of bank holding companies, respectively, except failures to so comply or be in conformity with that could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse change on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Bank Holding Company. 
days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, Sarbanes-Oxley or Exchange Act, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(v)  .  Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, the Bank and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in material compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.  The Internal Controls are overseen by the Examining and Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
3.  .  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters the Notes, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, the principal amount of the Notes set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto at a purchase price equal to (i) 99.296% of the principal amount thereof with respect to the Fixed Rate Notes and (ii) 99.5% of the principal amount thereof with respect to the Floating Rate Notes.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Notes
The Company will deliver the Notes to or as instructed by the Representative for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representative against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representative drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Ropes & Gray LLP, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on April 30, 2007, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representative and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all Notes sold pursuant to the offering. The Notes so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the above office at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
4.  .  It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Notes for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5.  . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
7
(a)  The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement.  The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses. 
(b)  .  For so long as a prospectus relating to the Notes is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, the Company will promptly advise the Representative of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representative a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representative promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of Notes in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose.  The Company will use their best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
(c)  .  If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Notes is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representative of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at the Company's expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representative, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance.  Neither the Representative's consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d)  .  For so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes, the Company will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to the Representative and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of any annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Representative (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representative may reasonably request.  However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), they are not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
(e)    The Company will promptly from time to time take such action as the Representative may reasonably request to qualify the Notes for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representative may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Notes; that in connection therewith the
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided
8
Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction.
(f)    Prior to 5:30 p.m., New York City time, on the New York business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Underwriters written and electronic copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in New York City in such quantities as the Representative may reasonably request.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(g)  The Company will make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c)), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (if required by the Commission) (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158).
Rule 158. 
(h)    During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the business day after the date of the Closing Date, the Company shall not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, grant any option to purchase, make any short sale or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any securities of the Company that are substantially similar to the Notes,  without the prior written consent of the Representative.
Restrictions on Sales of Notes.
(i)    The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the General Disclosure Package under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds.
(j)    If the Company elects to rely upon Rule 462(b), the Company shall file a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement with the Commission in compliance with Rule 462(b) by no later than the second business day following the date of this Agreement, and the Company shall at the time of filing either pay to the Commission the filing fee for the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement or give irrevocable instructions for the payment of such fee pursuant to Rule 111(b) under the Act.
Rule 462(b).
(k)    The Company, upon request of any Underwriter, will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to such Underwriter an electronic version of the Company's trademarks, servicemarks and corporate logo for use on the website, if any, operated by such Underwriter for the purpose of facilitating the on-line offering of the Notes (the ""); , that the License shall be used solely for the purpose described above, is granted without any fee and may not be assigned or transferred.
Company License.
License
provided, however
(l)    The Company will pay or caused to be paid the following:  (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of the Notes under the Act and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing any Agreement among Underwriters, this Agreement, any Blue Sky Memoranda, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Notes; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Notes for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(d) hereof, including the reasonable fees and
Payment of Expenses.
9
disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky survey(s); (iv) any fees charged by securities rating services for rating the Notes; (v) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, any required review by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the Notes; (vi) the cost of preparing the Notes; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Indenture Trustee and any of its respective agents, and the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Indenture Trustee; and (viii) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder and under the Indenture which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section.  It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Notes by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
(m)  .  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
Absence of Manipulation
as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "."  The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433,and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
6.  .  (a) .  The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representative, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus,"
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
(b)  .  The Company will prepare, or cause to be prepared, a final term sheet relating to the Notes, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Notes and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representative, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering of the Notes.  Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.  The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
7.  . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of each of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a)  The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.  All requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representative.
Filing of Prospectus. 
10
 In rendering such opinion, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts upon the opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP, counsel for the Company referred to below.
(b)  The Representative shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representative may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters. 
(c)  .  The Representative shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, of David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(i)  .  Each of the Company and the Bank is validly existing as a corporation or chartered trust company in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and the Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
Good Standing of the Company and Bank
(ii)  .  The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Capitalization of the Company
(iii)    To the best of such counsel's knowledge and other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending, threatened or contemplated legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Litigation.
(iv)    The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company; and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization.
(v)  The Notes have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and, when issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered by the Company against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles.
Issuances by the Company. 
(vi)    The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company, has been executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
Indenture.
(vii)  .  The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General
Investment Company Act
11
Disclosure Package, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act.
(viii)  The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto prior to the Closing Date (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations thereunder.
Compliance. 
(ix)  Although such counsel does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus, such counsel has no reason to believe that, as of the Effective Time relating to the Notes or as of the Closing Date, the Registration Statement or any further amendment thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that, as of its date, or the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that, as of the Applicable Time or as of the Closing Date, the General Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; to the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Act; and they do not know of any amendment to the Registration Statement required to be filed or of any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus which are not filed or incorporated by reference or described as required.
Disclosure.
(d)  .  The Representative shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, of Ropes & Gray LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Ropes & Gray LLP
(i)  Each of the Company and the Bank is validly existing as a corporation or chartered trust company in good standing with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and the Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
Good Standing of the Company and the Bank. 
(ii)  The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization. 
(iii)  The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company, and, when issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered by the Company
Issuances by the Company. 
12
against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles; and the Notes will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
(iv)    The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company, has been executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and the Notes are entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture.
Indenture.
(v)    The issue and sale of the Notes, the execution and delivery of the Indenture and this Agreement and the compliance with all of the provisions of the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein and herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any material debt instrument of the Company or the Bank or other contract or other agreement listed in an attachment to such opinion to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation known to such counsel of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions.
(vi)  . No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Notes being delivered at the Closing or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Indenture or this Agreement, except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing, obtained under the Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Notes by the Underwriters.
Consents
(vii)  The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes" and "Description of the Debt Securities", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes, and under the caption "Underwriting", insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair, in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure. 
(viii)  The Registration Statement, as of the Effective Time relating to the Notes, and the Final Prospectus, as of its date, and any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), as of this date, comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; although they do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus, except for those referred to in the opinion in subsection (vii) of this Section 7(d), they have no reason to believe that, as of the Effective Time relating to the Notes or as of the Closing Date, the Registration Statement or any further amendment thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no
Disclosure. 
13
opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that, as of its date, or the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that, as of the Applicable Time or as of the Closing Date, the General Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; to the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Act; and they do not know of any amendment to the Registration Statement required to be filed or of any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus which are not filed or incorporated by reference or described as required.
(e)    The Representative shall have received the opinion, dated as of the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, of Ropes & Gray LLP, special tax counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect that such firm confirms its opinion set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus under the captions "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" and "ERISA Considerations", insofar as such statements constitute a summary of matters of law or legal conclusions relating thereto, are accurate summaries, in all material respects, of the matters discussed therein, subject to the limitations stated therein.  Ropes & Gray LLP may also state in their opinion that, insofar as that opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of the officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Tax Opinion.
(f)  As of the Applicable Time and as of the Closing Date, the Notes shall have been rated (i) at least Aa3 with a stable outlook by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., (ii) at least AA- with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and (iii) at least AA- with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings.
Ratings. 
(g)  .  The Representative shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder and substantially in the form of Schedule C hereto (except that, in the letter dated on the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in paragraph 4 of such letter shall be a date no more than three days prior to such Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
which, in the judgment of the Representative, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Notes; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii)  any
(h)  .  Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole
No Material Adverse Change
14
change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representative, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal, New York or Massachusetts State authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representative, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Notes or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes.
(i)  .  The Representative shall have received a certificate, dated such Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus (which shall include the financial data included in the earnings press release filed with the Commission on April 17, 2007), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representative with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representative reasonably requires.  The Representative may in its sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8.  .  (a)  .  The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
15
conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
(b)  .  Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter:  the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
(c)  .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
16
(d)  .  If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
Contribution
9.  .  If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase the Notes hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total aggregate principal amount that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representative may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Notes by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Notes that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date.  If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of the Notes that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representative and the Company for the purchase of such Notes by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section.  Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
17
10.  .  The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes. If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Notes are not delivered as provided herein, the Company, jointly and severally, will reimburse the Underwriters through the Company for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Company, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Notes not so delivered, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; that all parties shall only be responsible for their own out-of pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, if any Notes are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein for any of the following reasons: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal or New York or Massachusetts State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or; (iv) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere.  In addition, if any Notes have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
provided, however;
11.  . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed or delivered and confirmed to the Representative at 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019, Attention:  Debt Capital Markets, Financial Institutions Group, Fax No. 646-834-8133 (with a copy to the General Counsel at the same address), or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed or delivered and confirmed to it at the address or facsimile number of the Company set forth in the Registration Statement, Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
12.  . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13.  .  The Representative will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representative will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship. 
(a)  .  The Representative has been retained solely to act as an underwriter in connection with the sale of the Notes and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representative has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Indenture or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representative has advised or is advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b)  .  The price of the Notes set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the
Arms' Length Negotiations
18
Representative and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Indenture;
(c)  .  The Company has been advised that the Representative and its affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representative has no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d)  .  The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representative for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the process leading thereto and agrees that the Representative shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
16. 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
19
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representative's understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
Acting on behalf of itself and as the Representative of the several Underwriters.
 
1.
General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
             
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
1.  Final term sheet, dated April 25, 2007
2.
Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
             
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
None

Exhibit 4.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
dated as of April 30, 2007
to
JUNIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE
dated as of December 15, 1996
between
STATE STREET CORPORATION
and
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE JUNE 15, 2037
 
 
This SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of April 30, 2007 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), to the Indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996, is made between STATE STREET CORPORATION, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Corporation"), and
U.S. Bank National Association
, a national banking association (the "Trustee").  All capitalized terms used in this Second Supplemental Indenture and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given such terms in the Original Indenture (as defined below).
W
:
I
T
N
E
S
S
E
T
H
WHEREAS, the Corporation and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago))), which was removed from State Street Capital Trust IV as trustee by an instrument of removal dated April 23, 2007) entered into an indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996 (the "Original Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured junior subordinated debt securities of the Corporation (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time; and
WHEREAS, Section 3.1 of the Original Indenture permits certain the terms of any Securities to be established in a supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture; and
WHEREAS, Section 9.1 of the Original Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Corporation and the Trustee, without the consent of any Holders of Securities, to establish the form and certain terms of the Securities of any series and to change any of the provisions of the Original Indenture, provided that such change does not apply to any Outstanding Securities; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation has requested the Trustee to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture in order to supplement and amend the Original Indenture by, among other things, establishing the form and terms of a series of Securities to be known as the Corporation's Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (the "Debentures") and amending certain provisions thereof; and
WHEREAS, State Street Capital Trust IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), intends to offer to the public $800,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its Capital Securities, representing an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust (the "Capital Securities"), and proposes to invest the proceeds from such offering, together with the proceeds of the sale of $10,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust's common securities (the "Common Securities") to the Corporation, in $800,010,000 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures;
WHEREAS, for purposes of the Original Indenture, the Trust shall constitute an Issuer Trust, the Capital Securities shall constitute Capital Securities, and the Trust's common securities shall constitute Common Securities; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Trustee desires to enter into this Second Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 9.1 of the Original Indenture as referred to above; and
 
WHEREAS, all necessary actions to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Corporation and the Trustee and a valid supplement to the Original Indenture have been duly taken,
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the parties to this Second Supplemental Indenture mutually covenant and agree as follows:
1.1  .  There is hereby created a series of Securities to be known and designated as the Debentures, to be in substantially the form and in accordance with the terms set forth in , attached hereto, subject to changes in the form thereof made by the Corporation and acceptable to the Trustee, and which shall be subordinated and junior to all existing and future Senior Debt (as defined in Section 1.17 of this Second Supplemental Indenture).  For purposes of the Original Indenture, the Debentures shall constitute a separate series of Securities.
Establishment of Series
Exhibit A
1.2  .  The aggregate principal amount of Debentures that may be issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture is limited to $800,010,000.
Limit on Aggregate Principal Amount
1.3  .  The Debentures will be issued only in fully registered form, and the authorized denominations of the Debentures shall be $1,000 principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.  The Debentures will be denominated in U.S. dollars and payments of principal and interest will be made in U.S. dollars.
Form and Denominations
1.4  .
Scheduled Maturity Date and Final Repayment Date
The scheduled maturity date for the payment of principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on the Debentures initially is June 15, 2037 or if such day is not a Business Day (as defined in Section 1.9(m) of this Second Supplemental Indenture), the following Business Day (the "Scheduled Maturity Date").  On June 15, 2017, the Corporation may elect, subject to the following criteria, to extend the Scheduled Maturity Date for an additional ten-year period resulting in the Schedule Maturity Date being reset to June 15, 2047:
(a)
                                 
(1)   on June 15, 2017, the Debentures are rated investment grade by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's") or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") or, if Moody's and S&P (or their respective successors) are no longer in existence, the equivalent rating by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act");
2
(2)   during the three years prior to June 15, 2017, (i) no event of default has occurred or is occurring in respect of any payment obligation on, or financial covenant in, any of the Corporation's then outstanding debt for money borrowed having an aggregate principal amount of $100 million or greater and (ii) the Corporation did not have any outstanding deferred payments under any of its then outstanding preferred stock or debt for money borrowed; and
(3)   on June 15, 2017, the Corporation delivered a written certification to the Trustee dated as of such date stating that on such date (i) the Corporation believes that the likelihood that the Corporation will elect to defer interest on the Debentures is remote, (ii) the Corporation expects to make all required payments on the Debentures in accordance with their terms, and (iii) the Corporation expects to be able to satisfy its obligations under the replacement capital covenant, dated as of the date hereof and attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Replacement Capital Covenant"), relating to the Debentures.
No modification of the foregoing criteria will be effective against any Holder of Debentures without the Holder's consent.  From and after June 15, 2017, if the Scheduled Maturity Date is extended as set forth above, the Scheduled Maturity Date will be the Scheduled Maturity Date as so extended.
The principal of, and all accrued and unpaid interest on, all outstanding Debentures shall initially be due and payable on June 1, 2067, or if such day is not a Business Day (as defined in Section 1.9(m) of this Supplemental Indenture), the following Business Day (the "Final Repayment Date").  On June 15, 2017, the Corporation may elect, subject to the following criteria, to extend the Final Repayment Date for an additional 10-year period resulting in the Final Repayment Date being extended to June 1, 2077:
(b)
                                
(1)   on June 15, 2017 the Debentures are rated investment grade by Moody's or S&P or, if Moody's and S&P (or their respective successors) are no longer in existence, the equivalent rating by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act;
(2)   during the three years prior to June 15, 2017, (i) no event of default has occurred or is occurring in respect of any payment obligation on, or financial covenant in, any of the Corporation's then outstanding debt for money borrowed having an aggregate principal amount of $100 million or greater and (ii) the Corporation did not have any outstanding deferred
3
payments under any of its then outstanding preferred stock or debt for money borrowed; and
(3)   on June 15, 2017, the Corporation delivered a written certification to the Trustee dated as of such date stating that on such date (i) the Corporation believes that the likelihood that the Corporation will elect to defer interest on the Debentures is remote, (ii) the Corporation expects to make all required payments on the Debentures in accordance with their terms, and (iii) the Corporation expects to be able to satisfy its obligations under the Replacement Capital Covenant relating to the Debentures.
From and after June 15, 2017, if the Final Repayment Date is extended as set forth above, the Final Repayment Date will be the Final Repayment Date as so extended.
1.5  .  The Corporation's obligation to repay all principal, together with accrued and unpaid interest, on the Scheduled Maturity Date is limited to the extent that sufficient net proceeds have been raised through the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities on the Debentures pursuant to this Section 1.5 on any date prior to the Final Repayment Date is subject to (A) its obligations under Section 13.1 of the Original Indenture to the Holders of Senior Debt and (B) its obligations under Section 1.8 with respect to the payment of deferred interest on the Debentures.
Obligation to Repay on the Scheduled Maturity Date
Until the Debentures are paid in full, the Corporation shall use Commercially Reasonable Efforts (as defined in clause (b) below), subject to a Market Disruption Event (as defined in clause (d) below):
(a)
                                 
(1)   to raise sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities during a 180-day period ending on a date, not more than 30 and not less than 10 Business Days prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date, on which the Corporation delivers the notice required to permit repayment of the Debentures in full on the Scheduled Maturity Date in accordance with the Replacement Capital Covenant; and
(2)   if the Corporation is unable for any reason to raise sufficient proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities to permit repayment in full of the Debentures on the Scheduled Maturity Date or any subsequent Monthly Interest Payment Date (as defined in Section 1.6 of this Second Supplemental Indenture), to raise sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities during a 30-day period ending on the date, not more than 15 and not less than 10 Business Days prior to the following Monthly Interest Payment Date, on which the Corporation delivers the notice required to permit repayment of the Debentures in full on such following Monthly Interest Payment Date; and the Corporation shall apply any such net proceeds to the repayment of the Debentures subject to clause (e) below.
4
 
For purposes of this Section 1.5, "Commercially Reasonable Efforts" to sell Qualifying Capital Securities means commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities to Persons other than Subsidiaries in public offerings or private placements.  The Corporation shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of Qualifying Capital Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
(b)
                                
Net proceeds of the issuance of any Qualifying Capital Securities that the Corporation is permitted to apply to repayment of the Debentures on any Interest Payment Date (as defined in Section 1.6 of this Second Supplemental Indenture) will be applied, first, to pay deferred interest to the extent of Eligible Proceeds raised pursuant to Section 1.9, second, to pay current interest to the extent not paid from other sources and, third, to repay the principal of Debentures; provided that if the Corporation is obligated to sell Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the net proceeds to payments of principal of or interest on any outstanding securities in addition to the Debentures, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for such payments shall be applied to the Debentures and those other securities having the same Scheduled Maturity Date as the Debentures pro rata in accordance with their respective outstanding principal amounts and none of such net proceeds shall be applied to any other securities having a later Scheduled Maturity Date until the principal of and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Debentures has been paid in full.  If the Corporation raises less than $5 million of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities during the relevant 180-day, 90-day or 30-day period, as the case may be, it will not be required to repay any Debentures on the Scheduled Maturity Date or the next Interest Payment Date, as applicable, but it will use those net proceeds as provided in the preceding sentence to repay the Debentures on the next Interest Payment Date as of which it has raised at least $5 million of net proceeds.
(c)
                                 
"Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
(d)
                                
(1)   trading in securities generally (of the Corporation's common stock, $1 par value (the "Common Stock") or the preferred stock, no par authorized (the "Preferred Stock") specifically), on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange, or in the over-the-counter market, on which the Common Stock and/or the Preferred Stock is then listed or traded shall have been suspended or its settlement generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental agency having jurisdiction, and such suspension, disruption or the establishment of such minimum price
5
materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities (as defined below);
(2)   the Corporation is required to obtain the consent or approval of a regulatory body (including any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell APM qualifying securities pursuant to the alternative payment mechanism or to issue Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to the Corporation's repayment obligations as the case may be, and that consent or approval has not yet been obtained notwithstanding the Corporation's commercially reasonable efforts to obtain that consent or approval;
(3)   a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the Corporation's Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities;
(4)   a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the Corporation's Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities;
(5)   the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the Corporation's Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities;
(6)   there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the Corporation's Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities;
(7)   an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for the offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities (as such term is defined in Section 1.9(c) of this Second Supplemental Indenture), as the case may be, would, in the Corporation's reasonable judgment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated in that offering document or necessary to make the statements in that offering
6
document not misleading and either (a) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the Corporation's reasonable judgment, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business or (b) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the Corporation's ability to consummate that transaction, provided that no single suspension period described herein shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
(8)   the Corporation reasonably believes that the offering document for the offer and the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities or APM qualifying securities, as the case may be, would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Securities Exchange Commission (for reasons other than those described in Section 1.5(d)(7) of this Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, provided that no single suspension period described herein shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
The Corporation shall include a statement in the notice of redemption on the Scheduled Maturity Date that it will perform its obligations under this Section 1.5 to issue Qualifying Capital Securities to raise net proceeds sufficient to permit repayment of the Debentures in full on the Scheduled Maturity Date, and certify that it will continue to perform its obligations under Section 1.5 to issue Qualifying Capital Securities to redeem the Debentures in full.  The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on such written notices and certifications without requiring any additional due diligence or investigation into the performance by the Corporation of its obligations under this Section 1.5.
1.6    .  The Debentures will bear interest at an annual rate of (i) Three-Month LIBOR (as defined below) plus 1.00% from and including April 30, 2007 to but excluding June 15, 2047 and (ii) One-Month LIBOR (as defined below) plus 1.99% thereafter.  The Corporation will pay interest quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2007 until June 15, 2047, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next Business Day (each such date, a "Quarterly Interest Payment Date"), and thereafter monthly in arrears on the 15th day of each month, or if any such day in not a Business Day, on the next Business Day (each such date, a "Monthly Interest Payment Date," and in conjunction with a Quarterly Interest Payment Date, each an "Interest Payment Date") (subject to deferral as set forth in attached hereto).
Interest  the Debentures
Exhibit A
"Three-Month LIBOR" or "One-Month LIBOR" means, with respect to any quarterly or monthly interest period, the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three or one-month period, as applicable, commencing on the first day of that quarterly or monthly interest period that appears on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01
(a)
                                 
7
Page (the display designated on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page or such other page as may replace Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page on the service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits) (the "Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page") as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant quarterly or monthly interest period (the "LIBOR Determination Date").  If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page, three or one-month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three or one-month period commencing on the first day of that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date for that quarterly or monthly interest period.  The Calculation Agent (the Trustee, or any other firm appointed by the Corporation, acting as Calculation Agent) (the "Calculation Agent") will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate.  If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month or One-Month LIBOR with respect to that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of such quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month or One-Month LIBOR with respect to that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three or one-month period, as applicable, commencing on the first day of that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month or One-Month LIBOR for that quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, will be the same as Three-Month or One-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous interest period.  The establishment of Three-Month or One-Month LIBOR for each quarterly or monthly interest period, as applicable, by the Calculation Agent shall (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding.
"London Banking Day" is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
(b)
                                
8
Accrued interest that is not paid on the applicable interest payment date (after giving effect to the adjustment for non-Business Days described above) will bear Additional Interest, to the extent permitted by law, at the same annual rate, from the relevant interest payment date, compounded on each subsequent interest payment date. The terms "interest" and "deferred interest" refer not only to regularly scheduled interest payments but also to interest on interest payments not paid on the applicable interest payment date (i.e., compounded interest).
(c)
                                 
The floating interest rate for any quarterly or monthly interest period (the "Floating Interest Rate") will at no time be higher than the maximum rate then permitted by New York law as the same may be modified by United States law.
(d)
                                
The Calculation Agent shall, as soon as practicable after 11:00 a.m., London time, on each LIBOR Determination Date, determine Three-Month LIBOR or One-Month LIBOR, as applicable, and inform the Trustee (in the event the Trustee is not acting as Calculation Agent). Unless otherwise provided by the Trustee, the Paying Agent will calculate the amount of interest payable in respect of the applicable one-month or three month interest period (the "Interest Period") on the Debentures (the "Floating Interest Amount"). The Floating Interest Amount shall be calculated by applying the Floating Interest Rate to the principal amount of each Debenture outstanding at the commencement of the Interest Period, multiplying each such principal amount by the actual number of days in the Interest Period concerned (which actual number of days shall include the first day but exclude the last day of such Interest Period) divided by 360 and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest cent (with one-half cent or more being rounded upwards). The determination of the Floating Interest Rate by the Calculation Agent and the Floating Interest Amount by the Paying Agent will (in the absence of willful default, bad faith or manifest error) be final, conclusive and binding on all concerned. None of the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Calculation Agent, the Trust or the Corporation (or any of their respective officers, directors, agents, beneficiaries, employees or affiliates) shall have any liability to any Person for (i) the selection of any reference bank or (ii) any inability to retain major banks in the London interbank market, in the case of the Calculation Agent, which is caused by circumstances beyond its reasonable control.
(e)
                                 
Upon the request of a Holder of a Debenture, the Calculation Agent will provide the Floating Interest Rate then in effect and, if determined, the Floating Interest Rate for the next Interest Period with respect to the Debentures. Each such Floating Interest Rate may be obtained by telephoning the Calculation Agent.
(f)
                                   
9
 
1.7  .  Interest will include Additional Sums, if any, as provided in Section 10.6 of the Original Indenture until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment; provided that any overdue principal, premium or Additional Sums and any overdue installment of interest shall bear Additional Interest at the Floating Interest Rate (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), compounded quarterly, from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand.
Interest  General
All percentages resulting from any calculations referred to in this Second Supplemental Indenture will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one ten-thousandth of a percentage point, with five hundred-thousandths of a percentage point being rounded upwards (e.g., 6.87655% (or .0687655) would be rounded to 6.8766% (or .068766)), and all U.S. dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculations will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent or more being rounded upwards).
The initial Interest Period will begin April 30, 2007 and will end on but exclude September 17, 2007, and each successive Interest Period will begin on and include the prior Interest Payment Date and end on but exclude the next Interest Payment Date.  The interest payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Original Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the fifteenth day (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date, except as provided below.  In the event that the Debentures are in book-entry only form, the Regular Record Date for each Interest Payment Date shall be the Business Day next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
1.8  .  The Corporation shall have the right, pursuant to Section 3.12 of the Original Indenture, to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures on the terms set forth in attached hereto.
Deferral of Interest Payments
Exhibit A
1.9  .  Immediately following any APM Commencement Date (as defined below) and until the termination of the related deferral period, the Corporation shall, unless after notice to the Federal Reserve and except to the extent that the Federal Reserve shall have disapproved, issue APM qualifying securities (as defined below) until the Corporation has raised an amount of Eligible Proceeds (as defined below) at least equal to the aggregate and unpaid amount of deferred interest on
Alternative Payment Mechanism
10
the Debentures (including Additional Interest thereon) and applied such Eligible Proceeds on the next Interest Payment Date to the payment of deferred interest (including Additional Interest thereon); provided that:
the foregoing obligations shall not apply to the extent that with respect to deferred interest attributable to the first five years of any deferral period (including Additional Interest thereon), (i) the net proceeds of any issuance of Common Stock (or if the Corporation has amended the definition of "APM qualifying securities" to eliminate Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants (as defined below)) applied during such deferral period to pay interest on the Debentures pursuant to this Section 1.9, together with the net proceeds of all prior issuances of Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants so applied, would exceed an amount equal to 2% of the product of the average of the Current Stock Market Prices (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the 10 consecutive Trading Days (as defined below) ending on the second Trading Day immediately preceding the date of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's then most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements (the "Common Stock Issuance Cap"), (ii) the net proceeds of any issuance of Qualifying Preferred Stock (as defined below) applied to pay interest on the Debentures pursuant to this Section 1.9, together with the net proceeds of all prior issuances of Qualifying Preferred Stock applied during the current and all prior deferral periods, would exceed 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures initially issued under the Second Supplemental Indenture (the "Preferred Stock Issuance Cap"), and (iii) so long as the definition of "APM qualifying securities" has not been amended to eliminate Common Stock, the sale of Qualifying Warrants to pay deferred interest is an option that may be exercised at the Corporation's sole discretion, and the Corporation will not be obligated to sell Qualifying Warrants or to apply the proceeds of any such sale to pay deferred interest on the Debentures, and no class of investors in the Corporation's securities, or any other party, may require the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants; provided that the Common Stock Issuance Cap will cease to apply after the ninth anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period, at which point the Corporation must pay any deferred interest, using the Alternative Payment Mechanism, subject to any Maximum Share Number (as defined below), Market Disruption Event or any Supervisory Event (as defined below).  The Maximum Share Number (as defined below); and provided, further, that if the Common Stock Issuance Cap is reached during a deferral period and the Corporation subsequently repays all deferred interest, the Common Stock Issuance Cap will cease to apply at the termination of such deferral period and will not apply again unless and until the Corporation starts a new deferral period.
(a)
                                 
11
the Corporation shall not be permitted to sell more than 15 million shares of Common Stock (such number, as it may be adjusted from time to time, the "Maximum Share Number") for purposes of paying deferred interest on the Debentures; provided that if the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class by reason of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or other similar transaction, then the Maximum Share Number shall be correspondingly adjusted; and provided, further, that the Corporation may, at its discretion and without the consent of the Holders of the Debentures, increase the Maximum Share Number (including through the increase of the Corporation's authorized share capital, if necessary) if the Corporation determines that such increase is necessary to allow the Corporation to issue sufficient shares to pay deferred interest on the Debentures.
(b)
                                
"APM Commencement Date" means, with respect to any deferral period, the earlier of (i) the first Interest Payment Date following the commencement of such deferral period on which the Corporation pays any current interest on the Debentures and (ii) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period.
(c)
                                 
"APM Period" means, with respect to any deferral period, the period commencing on the APM Commencement Date and ending on the next Interest Payment Date on which the Corporation has raised an amount of Eligible Proceeds at least equal to the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid deferred interest, including Additional Interest, on the Debentures.
(d)
                                
"APM qualifying securities" means Common Stock, Qualifying Preferred Stock and Qualifying Warrants; provided that the Corporation may, without the consent of the Holders of the Capital Securities or the Debentures, amend the definition of "APM qualifying securities" to eliminate Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants (but not both) from the definition if the Corporation has been advised in writing by a nationally recognized independent accounting firm that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to do so would result in a reduction in the Corporation's earnings per share as calculated for financial reporting purposes; the Corporation willpromptly notify the Holders of the Debentures, and the Trustee will promptly notify the Holders of the Capital Securities of such change.
(e)
                                 
"Current Stock Market Price" of the Common Stock on any date shall mean (i) the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York
(f)
                                   
12
Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted, (ii) if the Common Stock is not either listed on any U.S. securities exchange or quoted on the relevant date, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization, or (iii) if the Common Stock is not so quoted, the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Corporation for this purpose.
"Eligible Proceeds" means, with respect to each relevant Interest Payment Date, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale) the Corporation has received during the 180-day period prior to such Interest Payment Date from the issuance or sale of APM qualifying securities (excluding sales of Common Stock in excess of the Maximum Share Number or Preferred Stock up to the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap) to Persons that are not Subsidiaries.
(g)
                                
"Qualifying Preferred Stock" means non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation that (a) ranks with or junior to all other Preferred Stock of the Corporation, and (b) either (x) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant, and has a provision that prohibits the Corporation from paying any dividends thereon upon its failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth therein, and (c) as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of dividends other than permitted remedies, as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant.
(h)
                                
pari passu
"Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant" means a replacement capital covenant that is substantially similar to the Replacement Capital Covenant attached hereto as , as identified by the Corporation's Board of Directors acting in good faith and in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of such Replacement Capital Covenant, (i) entered into by a company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and (ii) that restricts the related issuer from redeeming, repaying or purchasing identified securities except to the extent of the applicable percentage of the net proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, repayment or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, repaid or purchased within the 180-day period prior to the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date.
(i)
                                    
Exhibit B
13
"Qualifying Warrants" means any net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that (1) have an exercise price greater than the Current Stock Market Price of the Common Stock as of the date the Corporation agrees to issue the warrants, and (2) the Corporation is not entitled to redeem for cash and the Holders of which are not entitled to require the Corporation to repurchase for cash in any circumstances. Qualifying Warrants will be issued in accordance with the Alternative Payment Mechanism and will have exercise prices at least 10% above the Current Stock Market Price of the Common Stock on the date of issuance.
(j)
                                    
"Supervisory Event" means an event that shall commence upon the date the Corporation has notified the Federal Reserve of its intention and affirmatively requested Federal Reserve approval both (1) to sell APM qualifying securities and (2) to apply the net proceeds of such sale to pay deferred interest on the Debentures, and the Corporation has been notified that the Federal Reserve disapproves of either action mentioned in that notice. A Supervisory Event shall cease on the Business Day following the earlier to occur of (a) the tenth anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period, or (b) the day on which the Federal Reserve notifies the Corporation in writing that it no longer disapproves of the Corporation's intention to both (i) issue or sell APM qualifying securities and (ii) apply the net proceeds from such sale to pay deferred interest on the Debentures. The occurrence and continuation of a Supervisory Event will excuse the Corporation from its obligation to sell APM qualifying securities and to apply the net proceeds of such sale to pay deferred interest on the Debentures and will permit the Corporation to pay deferred interest using cash from any other source without breaching its obligations under the Second Supplemental Indenture. Because a Supervisory Event will exist if the Federal Reserve disapproves of either of these requests, the Federal Reserve will be able, without triggering a default under the Original Indenture, to permit the Corporation to sell APM qualifying securities but to prohibit the Corporation from applying the proceeds to pay deferred interest on the Debentures.
(k)
                                 
"Trading Day" means a day on which the Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or if not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, a day on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted on the principal U.S. securities exchange on which it is listed or quoted, or if not then listed or quoted on a U.S. securities exchange, a day on which the Common Stock is quoted in the over-the-counter market.
(l)
                                    
"Business Day" means any London business day other than any Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York, Boston, Massachusetts or Wilmington, Delaware are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
(m)
                              
14
"London business day" is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
(n)
                                
For the avoidance of doubt, once the Corporation reaches the Common Stock Issuance Cap for a deferral period, the Corporation shall not be required to issue more Common Stock (or if the Corporation has amended the definition of "APM qualifying securities" to eliminate Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants) with respect to deferred interest attributable to the first five years of such deferral period (including Additional Interest thereon) pursuant to this Section 1.9 even if the amount referred to in clause (a) of this Section 1.9 subsequently increases because of a subsequent increase in the sale price of Common Stock or the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock.
(o)
                                
The Corporation shall provide written notice to the Trustee following the occurrence of an APM Commencement Date and certify that it will perform its obligations as required under this Section 1.9.  The Corporation shall also provide written certification to the Trustee at least 5 Business Days prior to each subsequent Interest Payment Date during the APM Period specifying the amount of Eligible Proceeds to be paid to the Trustee and applied to pay deferred interest (including Additional Interest thereon), specifying the application of such Eligible Proceeds to current interest and deferred interest (including Additional Interest thereon) and the amount of current interest and deferred interest (including Additional Interest thereon) remaining outstanding as of such Interest Payment Date.  The Trustee shall be allowed to rely on such notices and certifications without requiring any additional due diligence or investigation into the performance of the Corporation of its obligation under this Section 1.9.
The Corporation will be excused from its obligations under the Alternative Payment Mechanism in respect of any Interest Payment Date if the Corporation provides written certification to the Trustee (which the Trustee will promptly forward upon receipt to each Holder of record of the applicable series of Capital Securities) no more than 15 and no less than 10 Business Days in advance of that interest payment date certifying that:
a)     a Market Disruption Event or Supervisory Event was existing after the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date; and
b)    either (a) the Market Disruption Event or Supervisory Event continued for the entire period from the Business Day immediately following the preceding Interest Payment Date to the Business Day immediately preceding the date on which that certification is provided, (b) the Market Disruption Event or Supervisory Event continued for only part of this period, but the Corporation was unable to raise sufficient eligible proceeds during the rest of that period to pay all accrued and unpaid interest, or (c) the Supervisory Event prevents the Corporation from
15
applying the net proceeds of sales of APM qualifying securities to pay deferred interest on such interest payment date.
 The Corporation will not be excused from its obligations under the Alternative Payment Mechanism if it determines not to pursue or complete the sale of APM qualifying securities due to pricing, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
The Corporation has the right to redeem the Debentures at any time on or after June 15, 2012, at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption.
1.10  . 
Redemption
he Corporation may elect to redeem all, but not less than all, of the Debentures at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption at any time within 90 days of a Tax Event, Rating Agency Event, Capital Treatment Event or Investment Company Event (as defined in Section 1.12 of this Second Supplement Indenture).  Except as set forth in the preceding sentence the Corporation may not redeem the Securities prior to June 15, 2012.
1.11  .  T
Conditional Right to Redeem Debentures upon a Capital Treatment Event, Investment Company Event, Tax Event, or Rating Agency Event
1.12  . Solely for purposes of the Debentures, the definition of "Capital Treatment Event," "Investment Company Event," and "Tax Event," in Section 1.1 of the Original Indenture shall not apply, and the following definitions shall instead be applicable:
Definition of Capital Treatment Event, Investment Company Event, Tax Event, and Rating Agency Event
"Capital Treatment Event" means the reasonable determination by the Corporation (as evidenced by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee) that, as a result of any amendment to, or change (including any proposed change) in, the laws (or any regulations thereunder) of the United States or any political subdivision thereof or therein that is enacted or becomes effective after the date hereof, or as a result of any official or administrative pronouncement, action or judicial decision interpreting or applying such laws or regulations, which amendment or change is effective or which proposed change, pronouncement, action or decision is announced after the hereof, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount (as such term is defined in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement (as defined in Section 1.15 of this Second Supplement Indenture)) of the Capital Securities (or any substantial portion thereof) as "Tier 1 Capital" (or the then equivalent thereof) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as then in effect and applicable to the Corporation.
(a)
                                 
"Investment Company Event" means with respect to the Debentures, the receipt by the Corporation and the Trust of an opinion of counsel experienced in matters relating to investment companies to the effect that,
(b)
                                
16
as a result of any change in law or regulation; or change in interpretation or application of law or regulation by any legislative body, court, governmental agency or regulatory authority;  there is a more than insubstantial risk that the Trust is or will be considered an investment company that is required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which change becomes effective on or after the date hereof.
"Tax Event" means, with respect to the Debentures, that the Corporation has requested and received an opinion of counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that, as a result of any amendment to or change (including any announced prospective change) in the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the date hereof; proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced after the date hereof; official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after the date hereof; or threatened challenge asserted in connection with an audit of the Corporation, the Trust or the Corporation's subsidiaries, or a threatened challenge asserted in writing against any other taxpayer that has raised capital through the issuance of securities that are substantially similar to the Debentures; there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Trust is, or will be, subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to income received or accrued on the Debentures; interest payable by the Corporation on the Debentures is not, or will not be, deductible by the Corporation, in whole or in part, for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or the Trust is, or will be, subject to more than a de minimis amount of other taxes, duties or other governmental charges.
(c)
                                 
"Rating Agency Event" means, with respect to the Debentures, a change in the methodology employed by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act that currently publishes a rating for the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries (a "rating agency") in assigning equity credit to securities such as the Debentures, as such methodology is in effect on the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture (the "current criteria"), which change results in a lower equity credit being assigned by such rating agency to the Debentures as of the date of such change than the equity credit that would have been assigned to the Debentures as of the date of such change by such rating agency pursuant to its current criteria.
(d)
                                
1.13  .  The Corporation shall not amend the Replacement Capital Covenant to impose additional restrictions on the type or amount of Qualifying Capital Securities for purposes of determining the extent to which repayment, redemption or repurchase of the Debentures or Capital Securities is permitted, except with the consent of the Holders of a majority by liquidation amount of the Capital
Replacement Capital Covenant
17
Securities or, if the Debentures have been distributed by the Trust, the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the Debentures.  Except as aforesaid, the Corporation may amend or supplement the Replacement Capital Covenant in accordance with its terms and without the consent of the Holders of the Capital Securities or the Debentures.
1.14  .  Each Holder, by such Holder's acceptance of the Debentures, will agree that if an event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or receivership, as set forth in the Original Indenture, shall occur prior to the redemption or repayment of the Debentures, such Holder shall have no claim for, and thus no right to receive, any interest deferred pursuant to Section 1.8 (including Additional Interest thereon) that has not been paid pursuant to Section 1.9 to the extent the amount of such interest exceeds two years of accumulated and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest thereon) on such Holder's Debentures.  Any such claim will be subject to applicable law.
Limitation on Claims in the Event of Bankruptcy, Insolvency or Receivership
U.S. Bank National Association, as Property Trustee, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the Holders of Trust Securities (as defined therein) and (b) the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2007 (the "Guarantee") between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, relating to the Trust are attached hereto as and , respectively.
1.15  .  The forms of (a) the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Trust Agreement") among the Corporation,
State Street Capital Trust IV
Exhibit C
Exhibit D
1.16  .  If the Debentures are distributed to Holders of Capital Securities in connection with the involuntary or voluntary dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Trust, the Debentures will be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") or its nominee and will be subject to the relevant provisions of the Original Indenture, including without limitation Section 3.5 thereof.
Global Securities
d to the Debentures, other than:
1.17  . Solely for purposes of the Debentures, the definition of "Senior Debt" shall be the principal of and premium and interest, if any, including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Corporation whether or not such claim for post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding, on Debt, whether incurred on or prior to the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture or thereafter incurred, unless, in the instrument creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding, it is provided that such obligations are not superior in right of payment to the Debentures or to other Debt that is or subordinate
Definition of Senior Debt
pari passu
any Debt of the Corporation which when incurred and without respect to any election under Section 1111(b) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, was without recourse to the Corporation;
(a)
                                 
any Debt of the Corporation to any of its subsidiaries;
(b)
                                
18
any Debt to any of the Corporation's employees;
(c)
                                 
any other debt securities issued pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture.
(d)
                                
trade accounts payable, accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business, or any future debt that by its terms is not superior in right of payment to the Debentures.
(e)
                                 
  The Corporation's obligations to make payments on the Debentures and the Guarantee are subordinate to the Corporation's payment obligations under its Senior Debt. There is no limit on the amount of indebtedness for money borrowed the Corporation may issue that ranks senior or to the Debentures upon our liquidation or in right of payment as to principal or interest.
pari passu
1.18  .  In connection with the issuance of the Debentures, the Corporation hereby represents and warrants that as of the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Corporation is not obligated in respect of any Debt for borrowed money from (i) any Subsidiary that is not a bank or bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or (ii) any employee of the Corporation, except, in each case, (x) in respect of Debt on which the Corporation shall defer payments of principal, interest and premium to the same extent that the Corporation defers payments of interest on the Debentures; or (y) in the ordinary course of business.
Representations and Warranties
1.19  .  Solely for purposes of the Debentures, the following new Sections 10.9 and 10.10 of the Original Indenture shall be applicable:
Additional Covenants
"Section 10.9         .
Indebtedness to Certain Subsidiaries
Except in the ordinary course of business, the Corporation shall not incur Debt for borrowed money from any Subsidiary that is not a bank or bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, unless, pursuant to the terms of such Debt, the Corporation defers payments of principal, interest and premium, if any, in respect of such Debt to the same extent that the Corporation defers payments of interest on the Debentures.
Section 10.10         .
Debt to Employees
Except in the ordinary course of business, the Corporation shall not incur Debt for borrowed money from any employee of the Corporation, unless, pursuant to the terms of such Debt, the Corporation defers payments of principal, interest and premium, if any, in respect of such Debt to the same extent that the Corporation defers payments of interest on the Debentures."
19
1.20  .  Solely for purposes of the Debentures, clause (3) of the definition of "Event of Default" set forth in Section 5.1 of the Original Indenture shall be inapplicable.
Events of Default
The Corporation shall not enter into any agreement or amendment to this Second Supplemental Indenture to add any additional event of default to the definition of Event of Default without the consent of at least a majority of the aggregate outstanding amount of Debentures.
1.21  .  If the Corporation engages in any merger, consolidation, amalgamation or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as any entirety to any other Person, where immediately after the consummation of such transaction more than 50% of the voting stock of the Person formed by such transaction, or the Person that is the surviving entity of such transaction, or the Person to whom such properties and assets are conveyed, transferred or leased in such transaction, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to such transaction, then Section 1.9 shall not apply to any Deferral Period that is terminated on the next Interest Payment Date following the date of consummation of such transaction (or if later, at any time within 90 days following the date of consummation of the business combination).
Business Combinations
1.22  .
Tax Treatment
Each Holder of a Debenture and each beneficial owner of a Debenture (including the Trust and each holder of Capital Securities), by its acquisition of a Debenture will agree totreat the Debentures as indebtedness for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes;
(a)
                                 
The Corporation and the Trustee hereby agree to treat the Debentures as indebtedness for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes.
(b)
                                
, that any successor of the Corporation, permitted pursuant to Article VIII of the Original Indenture may succeed to the Corporation's ownership of such Common Securities, (b) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trust to remain a statutory trust, except in connection with a distribution of Debentures to the holders of Capital Securities and Common Securities of the Trust in liquidation of the Trust; (c) not voluntarily terminate, wind-up or liquidate the Trust, except in connection with (i) a distribution of the Debentures to the holders of
2.1  .  In the event that the Debentures are issued to the Trust or the Trustee of the Trust in connection with the issuance of Capital Securities and Common Securities by the Trust, for so long as such Capital Securities and/or Common Securities remain outstanding, the Corporation will (a) maintain 100% direct or indirect ownership of the Common Securities;
Covenant as to the Trust
provided, however
20
the Capital Securities and Common Securities of the Trust in liquidation of the Trust, (ii) the redemption of all of the Capital Securities and Common Securities issued by the Trust, (iii) in connection with mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, in each case as permitted by the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement; (d) use its reasonable efforts, consistent with the terms and provisions of the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, to cause the Trust to remain classified as a grantor trust and not as an association taxable as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes; and (e) use its reasonable efforts to ensure that the Trust will not be an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment Company Act.
2.2  .  The Corporation shall not amend or modify the Original Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Article IX of the Original Indenture if such amendment or modification would cause the Trust to be treated other than as a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes.
Additional Supplemental Indentures
2.3  .  This Second Supplemental Indenture is a supplement to the Original Indenture.  As supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified, approved and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture on Original Indenture
2.4  .  The modifications to the Original Indenture set forth in this Second Supplemental Indenture shall become effective on the date first written above.
Effective Date
2.5  .  This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
2.6  .  The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Corporation, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Recitals
2.7  .  This Second Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction that govern the Original Indenture and its construction.
Governing Law
21
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
No. FL-1                                                                                                                       $800,010,000
 
STATE STREET CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (hereinafter called the , which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to U.S. Bank National Association, as Property Trustee for State Street Capital Trust IV, a statutory trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, or registered assigns, the principal sum of on June 1, 2067, maturity date as may be extended. The Corporation further promises to pay interest on said principal sum from April 30, 2007 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly at a variable annual rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR, determined as described in the Indenture, plus 1.00% (subject to deferral as set forth herein) from and including April 30, 2007 to but excluding June 15, 2047 in arrears on the fifteenth day of March, June, September and December commencing on September 15, 2007 (or, if any such date is not a business day, on the next business day) (each a "Quarterly Interest Payment Date"); and at an annual rate equal to One-Month LIBOR, determined as described in the Indenture, plus 1.99% (subject to deferral as set forth herein)
"Corporation"
Hundred Million, Ten Thousand Dollars ($800,010,000)
Eight
from and including July 15, 2047 (or if such day is not a business day, on the next business day) (each a "Monthly Interest Payment Date" and collectively with the Semi-Annual Interest Payment Date an "Interest Payment Date").
 
Interest will include Additional Sums, if any, as provided in Section 10.6 of the Indenture until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment; that any overdue principal, premium or Additional Sums and any overdue installment of interest shall bear Additional Interest at the Interest Rate (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), compounded on each subsequent Interest Payment Date, from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. The amount of interest payable for any period shall be computed by applying the Interest Rate on the principal amount of this Security outstanding at the commencement of the Interest Period, multiplying each such principal amount by the actual number of days in the Interest Period concerned (which actual number of days shall include the first day but exclude the last day of such Interest Period) divided by 360 and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest cent (with one-half cent or more being rounded upwards).  The initial Interest Period will begin April 30, 2007 and will end on but exclude September 17, 2007, and each successive Interest Period will begin on and include the prior Interest Payment Date and end on but exclude the next Interest Payment Date.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the fifteenth day (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
provided
 
 
So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Corporation shall have the right, at any time during the term of this Security, from time to time to defer the payment of interest on this Security for up to 40 consecutive quarterly interest payment periods with respect to each deferral period (each an ) at the end of which the Corporation shall pay all interest then accrued and unpaid including any Additional Interest, as provided below; , that no Extension Period shall extend beyond the Final Repayment Date of the principal of this Security and no such Extension Period may end on a date other than an Interest Payment Date; and , that during any such Extension Period, the Corporation shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to, (i) make any payment of principal of or interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities of the Corporation that rank in all respects with or junior in interest to this Security, or (ii) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of the Corporation's capital stock (other than (a) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of capital stock of the Corporation in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors,  consultants or independent contractors, in connection with a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan or in connection with the issuance of capital stock of the Corporation (or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock) as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Extension Period, (b) as a result of an exchange or conversion of any class or series of the Corporation's capital stock (or any capital stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation) for any class or series of the Corporation's capital stock or of any class or series of the Corporation's indebtedness for any class or series of the Corporation's capital stock, (c) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of the Corporation's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the security being converted or exchanged, (d) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any Rights Plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any Rights Plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto, (e) payments by the Corporation under its guarantee regarding the Issuer Trust holding the Security, (f) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks with or junior to such stock, (g) payments during a deferral period of current interest in respect of parity securities that are made pro rata to the amounts due on such parity securities and on the Security and any payments of deferred interest on parity securities that, if not made, would cause the Corporation to breach the terms of the instrument governing such parity securities, (h) payments of principal during a deferral period in respect of parity securities having the same Scheduled Maturity Date as the Security, as required under a provision of such parity securities that is made on a pro rata basis among one or more series of parity securities having such a provision and the Security) or (i) make any guarantee payments regarding any guarantee by the Corporation of any junior subordinated debentures of any of its subsidiaries if the guarantee ranks with or junior in interest to the Security. Prior to the termination of any such Extension Period, the Corporation may further defer the payment of interest, that no Extension Period shall exceed 40 consecutive quarterly interest payment periods, extend beyond the Final Redemption Date of the principal of this Security or end on a date other than an Interest Payment Date. Upon the termination of any such Extension Period and upon the payment of all accrued and unpaid interest and any Additional Interest then due on any Interest Payment Date, the Corporation may elect to begin a new Extension Period, subject to the above conditions. No interest shall be due and payable during an Extension Period, except at the end thereof, but each installment of interest that would otherwise have been due and payable during such Extension shall bear Additional Interest (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the Interest Rate, compounded on each subsequent Interest Payment Date and calculated as set forth in the first paragraph of this Security, from the dates on which amounts would otherwise have been due and payable until paid or made available for payment. The Corporation shall give the Holder of this Security and the Trustee notice of its election to begin any Extension Period at least one Business Day prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date on which interest on this
"Extension Period"
provided, however
provided, further, however
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
provided
 
 
 
Security would be payable but for such deferral or, so long as such Securities are held by the Issuer Trust, at least one Business Day prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding date on which Distributions on the Capital Securities of such Issuer Trust would be payable but for such deferral, and (ii) the date on which the Property Trustee of such Issuer Trust is required to give notice to holders of such Capital Securities of the record date or the date such Distributions are payable.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that at the option of the Corporation payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register, or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by the Person entitled thereto as specified by the Securities Register.
provided, however,
 
The indebtedness evidenced by this Security is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, subordinate and junior in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, and this Security is issued subject to the provisions of the Indenture with respect thereto. Each Holder of this Security, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Trustee on his or her behalf to take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided, and (c) appoints the Trustee his or her attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. Each Holder hereof, by his or her acceptance hereof, waives all notice of the acceptance of the subordination provisions contained herein and in the Indenture by each holder of Senior Indebtedness, whether now outstanding or hereafter incurred, and waives reliance by each such holder upon said provisions.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
Dated April 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Corporation (herein called the ), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2007 (as previously supplemented and amended, and as further amended or supplemented, ), between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called the , which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Corporation, the Trustee, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $800,010,000.
"Securities"
"Indenture"
"Trustee"
 
All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture or in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2007 (as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), relating to State Street Capital Trust IV (the ), among the Corporation, as Depositor, the Trustees named therein and the Holders from time to time of the Trust Securities issued pursuant thereto, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture or the Trust Agreement, as the case may be.
"Trust Agreement"
"Issuer Trust"
 
The Corporation has the authority to redeem this Security at any time on or after June 15, 2012, at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption.  In addition, the Corporation may elect to redeem all, but not less than all, of the Securities at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption prior to June 15, 2012, at any time within 90 days of a Tax Event, Rating Agency Event, Capital Treatment Event or Investment Company Event.  Except as set forth in the preceding sentence the Corporation may not redeem the Securities prior to June 15, 2012.
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Securities.
 
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness of this Security upon compliance by the Corporation with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Corporation and the Trustee at any time to enter into a supplemental indenture or indentures for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights and obligations of the Corporation and of the Holders of the Securities, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series to be affected by such supplemental indenture. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Corporation with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, if an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such
 
 
 
 
case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities of this series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), that, if upon an Event of Default, the Trustee or such Holders fail to declare the principal of all the Outstanding Securities of this series to be immediately due and payable, the holders of at least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities then Outstanding shall have the right to make such declaration by a notice in writing to the Corporation and the Trustee; and upon any such declaration the principal amount of and the accrued interest (including any Additional Interest) on all the Securities of this series shall become immediately due and payable, that the payment of principal and interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Securities shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in Article XIII of the Indenture.
provided
provided
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Corporation, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Securities Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained under Section 10.2 of the Indenture for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Securities Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Corporation and, by its acceptance of this Security or a beneficial interest therein, the Holder of, and any Person that acquires a beneficial interest in, this Security agree that for United States Federal, state and local tax purposes it is intended that this Security constitute indebtedness.
 
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED TRUST AGREEMENT
among
STATE STREET CORPORATION,
as DEPOSITOR
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as PROPERTY TRUSTEE
U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as DELAWARE TRUSTEE
and the several Holders of the Trust Securities
Dated as of April 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED TRUST AGREEMENT, dated as of April 30, 2007 among (i) STATE STREET CORPORATION, a Massachusetts corporation (including any successors or assigns, the ), (ii) U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as property trustee (in such capacity, the and, in its separate corporate capacity and not in its capacity as Property Trustee, the ), (iii) U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware trustee (in such capacity, the ), (iv) LYNNE JIMENEZ, an individual, and SUE HORN, an individual, each of whose address is c/o State Street Corporation, 61 Broadway, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10006 (each, an "," and collectively, the "") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees being referred to collectively as the ), and (v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined.
"Depositor"
"Property Trustee"
"Bank"
"Delaware Trustee"
Administrative Trustee
Administrative Trustees
"Issuer Trustees"
WHEREAS, the Issuer Trust was established as a statutory trust pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and pursuant to the Declaration of Trust, dated as of March 25, 1998 (the ), by the trustees named therein and by the execution and filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware of the Certificate of Trust, filed on March 25, 1998, as amended on April 25, 2007; and
"Original Trust Agreement"
WHEREAS, pursuant to a certificate of removal and appointment, dated April 23, 2007, the Depositor removed, without cause, each trustee of the Issuer Trust and appointed the Issuer Trustees as trustees of the Issuer Trust; and
WHEREAS, the Depositor and the Issuer Trustees desire to amend and restate the Original Trust Agreement in its entirety as set forth herein to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities by the Issuer Trust to the Depositor, (ii) the issuance and sale of the Capital Securities by the Issuer Trust pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, and (iii) the acquisition by the Issuer Trust from the Depositor of all of the right, title and interest in the Debentures;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the other parties and for the benefit of the Holders, hereby amends and restates the Original Trust Agreement in its entirety and agrees as follows:
Secton 1.1              .
Definitions
For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)           The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
 
(b)           All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c)           The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation";
(d)           All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles;
(e)           Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a "Section" or an "Exhibit" refers to an Article, a Section or an Exhibit, as the case may be, of or to this Trust Agreement; and
(f)            The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Trust Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
has the meaning specified in Section 6.8.
"Act"
means, with respect to Trust Securities of a given Liquidation Amount and/or a given period, the amount of Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) paid by the Depositor on a Like Amount of Debentures for such period.
"Additional Amount"
has the meaning specified in Section 10.6 of the Indenture.
"Additional Sums"
means each of the individuals identified as an "Administrative Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement solely in such individual's capacity as Administrative Trustee of the Issuer Trust formed and continued hereunder and not in such individual's individual capacity, or such Administrative Trustee's successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein provided.
"Administrative Trustee"
of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Affiliate"
means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Book-Entry Capital Security, the rules and procedures of the Clearing Agency for such Book-Entry Capital Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
"Applicable Procedures"
has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Trust Agreement.
"Bank"
means, with respect to any Person:
"Bankruptcy Event"
 
(a)           the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises judging such Person a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjudication or composition of or in respect of such Person under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(b)           the institution by such Person of proceedings to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due and its willingness to be adjudicated a bankrupt, or the taking of corporate action by such Person in furtherance of any such action.
has the meaning specified in Section 10.9.
"Bankruptcy Laws"
means the board of directors of the Depositor or the Executive Committee of the board of directors of the Depositor (or any other committee of the board of directors of the Depositor performing similar functions) or a committee designated by the board of directors of the Depositor (or any such committee), comprised of two or more members of the board of directors of the Depositor or officers of the Depositor, or both.
"Board of Directors"
means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Depositor to have been duly adopted by the  Board of Directors, or officers of the Depositor to which authority to act on behalf of the Board of Directors has been delegated, and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Issuer Trustees.
"Board Resolution"
means a Capital Securities Certificate evidencing ownership of Book-Entry Capital Securities.
"Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificate"
means a Capital Security, the ownership and transfers of which shall be made through book entries by a Clearing Agency as described in Section 5.11.
"Book-Entry Capital Security"
means any London Business Day other than any Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York, Boston, Massachusetts or Wilmington, Delaware are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
"Business Day"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"Calculation Agent"
means a certificate evidencing ownership of Capital Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B.
"Capital Securities Certificate"
 
means an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Issuer Trust, having a Liquidation Amount of $1,000 and having the rights provided therefor in this Trust Agreement, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein.
"Capital Security"
has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof, as amended from time to time.
"Certificate of Trust"
means an organization registered as a "clearing agency" pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act.  DTC will be the initial Clearing Agency.
"Clearing Agency"
means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing Agency effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Clearing Agency.
"Clearing Agency Participant"
means the Time of Delivery, which date is also the date of execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement.
"Closing Date"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act or, if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Commission"
means a certificate evidencing ownership of Common Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A.
"Common Securities Certificate"
means an undivided common beneficial interest in the assets of the Issuer Trust having a Liquidation Amount of $1,000 and having the rights provided therefor in this Trust Agreement, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein.
"Common Security"
means (i) when used with respect to the Property Trustee, the principal office of the Property Trustee, and (ii) when used with respect to the Indenture Trustee, the principal office of the Indenture Trustee.
"Corporate Trust Office"
means the occurrence of any as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Debentures.
"Debenture Event of Default"
"Event of Default,"
means, with respect to any Debentures to be redeemed under the Indenture, the date fixed for redemption of such Debentures under the Indenture.
"Debenture Redemption Date"
means a "" as defined in the Indenture.
"Debenture Tax Event"
Tax Event
means the Depositor's Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures, issued pursuant to the Indenture.
"Debentures"
 
means either or both (as the context requires) of (i) Capital Securities Certificates issued as Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates as provided in Section 5.11, and (ii) Capital Securities Certificates issued in certificated, fully registered form as provided in Section 5.13.
"Definitive Capital Securities Certificates"
means Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware Code  3801 , as it may be amended from time to time.
"Delaware Statutory Trust Act"
et seq.
means the Person identified as the in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Delaware Trustee of the trust heretofore formed and continued hereunder and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor Delaware trustee appointed as herein provided.
"Delaware Trustee"
"Delaware Trustee"
has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Trust Agreement.
"Depositor"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"Distribution Amount"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(i).
"Distribution Date"
means the period of time beginning on any Distribution Date (or the Time of Delivery in the case of the initial Distribution Period) and ending on the day immediately preceding the next succeeding Distribution Date.
"Distribution Period"
means amounts payable in respect of the Trust Securities as provided in Section 4.1.
"Distributions"
means The Depository Trust Company.
"DTC"
has the meaning specified in Section 9.2.
"Early Dissolution Event"
means any one of the following events constitutes an Event of Default regardless of the reason for such event of default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body:
"Event of Default"
(a)           a Debenture Event of Default;
(b)           the default by the Property Trustee in the payment of any Distribution on any Trust Security when such payment becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30 days;
(c)           the default by the Property Trustee in the payment of any Redemption Price of any Trust Security when such becomes due and payable;
(d)           the default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of any covenant or warranty of the Issuer Trustees in this Trust Agreement, other than a covenant or warranty of default in the performance of which or the breach of which is dealt with above, and continuation of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the defaulting trustee or trustees by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate
 
liquidation amount of the outstanding Capital Securities of the Issuer Trust, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Trust Agreement;
(e)           the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to the Property Trustee and our failure to appoint a successor property trustee within 90 days.
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Exchange Act"
has the meaning specified in Section 9.1.
"Expiration Date"
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as from time to time constituted, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, or if at any time after the execution of this Trust Agreement the Federal Reserve is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Federal Reserve"
means a Capital Security that bears interest at a floating percentage rate as described in Section 4.1(b).
"Floating Rate Capital Security"
means the Guarantee Agreement executed and delivered by the Depositor and U.S. Bank National Association, as Guarantee Trustee (as defined therein), contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, for the benefit of the holders of the Trust Securities, as amended from time to time.
"Guarantee"
means a Person in whose name a Trust Security or Trust Securities are registered in the Securities Register; any such Person shall be deemed to be a beneficial owner within the meaning of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.
"Holder"
has the meaning specified in Section 8.6(c).
"Indemnified Person"
means the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996, between the Depositor and the former Indenture Trustee, as trustee, as amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture between State Street Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, dated April 30, 2007.
"Indenture"
means U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, solely in its capacity as trustee pursuant to the Indenture and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as provided in the Indenture.
"Indenture Trustee"
means the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Investment Company Act"
means the Delaware statutory trust known as "State Street Capital Trust IV" which was created on March 25, 1998 under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to the Original Trust Agreement and the filing of the Certificate of Trust, and continued pursuant to this Trust Agreement.
"Issuer Trust"
 
means, collectively, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees.
"Issuer Trustees"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"LIBOR Determination Date"
means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, deed of trust, adverse ownership interest, hypothecation, assignment, security interest or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever.
"Lien"
means (a) with respect to a redemption of any Trust Securities, Trust Securities having a Liquidation Amount equal to the principal amount of Debentures to be contemporaneously redeemed in accordance with the Indenture, the proceeds of which will be used to pay the Redemption Price of such Trust Securities, (b) with respect to a distribution of Debentures to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution or liquidation of the Issuer Trust, Debentures having a principal amount equal to the Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities of the Holder to whom such Debentures are distributed, and (c) with respect to any distribution of Additional Amounts to Holders of Trust Securities, Debentures having a principal amount equal to the Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities in respect of which such distribution is made.
"Like Amount"
means the stated amount of $1,000 per Trust Security.
"Liquidation Amount"
means the date of the dissolution, winding-up or dissolution of the Issuer Trust pursuant to Section 9.4.
"Liquidation Date"
has the meaning specified in Section 9.4(d).
"Liquidation Distribution"
means any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
"London Business Day"
or means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, Capital Securities or Common Securities, as the case may be, representing more than 50% of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of all then Outstanding Capital Securities or Common Securities, as the case may be.
"Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities"
"Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Common Securities"
means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of such Person, a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of such Person, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of such Person.  Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Trust Agreement shall include:
"Officers' Certificate"
(a)           a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto;
(b)           a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by such officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate;
 
(c)           a statement that such officer has made such examination or investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d)           a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"One-Month LIBOR"
means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Depositor or any Affiliate of the Depositor.
"Opinion of Counsel"
has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Trust Agreement.
"Original Trust Agreement"
," when used with respect to Trust Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Trust Securities theretofore executed and delivered under this Trust Agreement,
"Outstanding
except:
(a)           Trust Securities theretofore cancelled by the Property Trustee or delivered to the Property Trustee for cancellation;
(b)           Trust Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Property Trustee or any Paying Agent; that, if such Trust Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Trust Agreement; and
provided
(c)           Trust Securities that have been paid or exchanged for or in lieu of which other Capital Securities have been executed and delivered pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.11;
that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Capital Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Capital Securities owned by the Depositor, any Issuer Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Depositor or any Issuer Trustee shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that (a) in determining whether any Issuer Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Capital Securities that such Issuer Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded, and (b) the foregoing shall not apply at any time when all of the Outstanding Capital Securities are owned by the Depositor, one or more of the Issuer Trustees, one or more of the Administrative Trustees and/or any such Affiliate. Capital Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrative Trustees the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Capital Securities and that the pledgee is not the Depositor or any Affiliate of the Depositor.
provided, however,
means each Person who is the beneficial owner of Book-Entry Capital Securities as reflected in the records of the Clearing Agency or, if a Clearing Agency Participant
"Owner"
 
is not the Owner, then as reflected in the records of a Person maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or indirectly, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency).
means any paying agent or co-paying agent appointed pursuant to Section 5.9 and shall initially be the Bank.
"Paying Agent"
means a segregated non-interest-bearing corporate trust account maintained by the Property Trustee for the benefit of the Holders in which all amounts paid in respect of the Debentures will be held and from which the Property Trustee, through the Paying Agent, shall make payments to the Holders in accordance with Sections 4.1 and 4.2.
"Payment Account"
means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature.
"Person"
means the Person identified as the in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Property Trustee of the trust heretofore formed and continued hereunder and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor Property Trustee appointed as herein provided.
"Property Trustee"
"Property Trustee"
means, with respect to any Trust Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Trust Agreement; that each Debenture Redemption Date and the stated maturity of the Debentures shall be a Redemption Date for a Like Amount of Trust Securities.
"Redemption Date"
provided
means, with respect to any Trust Security, the Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security, plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions to the Redemption Date.
"Redemption Price"
shall have the meaning specified in Section 8.10.
"Relevant Trustee"
means, with respect to any Issuer Trustee, the President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer of such Issuer Trustee.
"Responsible Officer"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page"
means June 15, 2037 (or June 15, 2047 if the Scheduled Maturity Date of the Debentures is extended pursuant to the Indenture).
"Scheduled Maturity Date"
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Securities Act"
and have the respective meanings specified in Section 5.4.
"Securities Register"
"Securities Registrar"
 
of any particular Capital Securities Certificate means every Capital Securities Certificate issued after, and evidencing all or a portion of the same beneficial interest in the Issuer Trust as that evidenced by, such particular Capital Securities Certificate; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Capital Securities Certificate executed and delivered under Section 5.5 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Capital Securities Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same beneficial interest in the Issuer Trust as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Capital Securities Certificate.
"Successor Capital Securities"
has the meaning specified in Section 9.5.
"Successor Securities"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(c).
"Three-Month LIBOR"
means April 30, 2007.
"Time of Delivery"
means this Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, including (i) all exhibits, and (ii) for all purposes of this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, respectively.
"Trust Agreement"
means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
"Trust Indenture Act"
provided, however,
means (a) the Debentures, (b) any cash on deposit in, or owing to, the Payment Account, and (c) all proceeds and rights in respect of the foregoing and any other property and assets for the time being held or deemed to be held by the Property Trustee pursuant to the trusts of this Trust Agreement.
"Trust Property"
means any one of the Common Securities or the Capital Securities.
"Trust Security"
means any one of the Common Securities Certificates or the Capital Securities Certificates.
"Trust Securities Certificate"
means the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of April 23, 2007, among the Issuer Trust, the Depositor and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein.
"Underwriting Agreement"
"Vice President,"
when used with respect to the Depositor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
 
.
Section 2.1            
Name
The trust continued hereby shall be known as "State Street Capital Trust IV," as such name may be modified from time to time by the Administrative Trustees following written notice to the Holders and the other Issuer Trustees, in which name the Administrative Trustees and the other Issuer Trustees may conduct the business of the Issuer Trust, make and execute contracts and other instruments on behalf of the Issuer Trust and sue and be sued.
.
Section 2.2            
Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business
The address of the Delaware Trustee in the State of Delaware is 300 Delaware Avenue, 9th Floor, Wilmington, DE 19801, Attention:  Corporate Trust Services, or such other address in the State of Delaware as the Delaware Trustee may designate by written notice to the Depositor, the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. The principal executive office of the Issuer Trust is 61 Broadway, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10006, Attention: Administrative Trustees of State Street Capital Trust IV or such other office that the Administrative Trustees shall occupy from time to time.
.
Section 2.3            
Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Organizational Expenses
The Issuer Trustees acknowledge receipt from the Depositor in connection with the Original Trust Agreement of the sum of $10, which constituted the initial Trust Property. The Depositor shall pay organizational expenses of the Issuer Trust as they arise or shall, upon request of any Issuer Trustee, promptly reimburse such Issuer Trustee for any such expenses paid by such Issuer Trustee. The Depositor shall make no claim upon the Trust Property for the payment of such expenses.
.
Section 2.4            
Issuance of the Capital Securities
On April 23, 2007, the Depositor, both on its own behalf and on behalf of the Issuer Trust pursuant to the Original Trust Agreement, executed and delivered the Underwriting Agreement.  Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Issuer Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement a Capital Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the nominee of the initial Clearing Agency, in an aggregate amount of 800,000 Capital Securities having an aggregate Liquidation Amount of $800,000,000, against payment of the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which funds such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee.
.
Section 2.5            
Issuance of the Common Securities; Subscription and Purchase of Debentures
Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Issuer Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Depositor Common Securities Certificates, registered in the name of the Depositor, in an aggregate amount of 10 Common Securities having an aggregate Liquidation
 
Amount of $10,000 against payment by the Depositor of the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which amount such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee.  Contemporaneously therewith, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Issuer Trust, shall subscribe to and purchase from the Depositor Debentures registered in the name of the Issuer Trust and having an aggregate principal amount equal to $800,010,000 and shall deliver to the Depositor the purchase price therefor (being the sum of the amounts delivered to the Property Trustee pursuant to (i) the second sentence of Section 2.4 and (ii) the first sentence of this Section 2.5).
.
Section 2.6            
Declaration of Trust
The exclusive purposes and functions of the Issuer Trust are (a) to issue and sell Trust Securities, (b) use the proceeds from such sale to acquire the Debentures, and (c) to engage in those activities necessary or incidental thereto.  The Issuer Trust shall not acquire any investments, sell or assign Trust Property, borrow money, issue debt or reinvest proceeds derived from investments, mortgage or pledge any of its assets, take or consent to any action that would result in the placement of a lien on any of the Trust Property, issue any securities other than the Common Securities or Capital Securities, or otherwise take (or permit to be taken) any action or activity that would cause the Issuer Trust not to be classified for United States federal income tax purposes as a grantor trust.  The Depositor hereby appoints the Issuer Trustees as trustees of the Issuer Trust, to have all the rights, powers and duties to the extent set forth herein, and the Issuer Trustees hereby accept such appointment. The Property Trustee hereby declares that it will hold the Trust Property upon and subject to the conditions set forth herein for the benefit of the Issuer Trust and the Holders.  The Administrative Trustees shall have all rights, powers and duties set forth herein and in accordance with applicable law with respect to accomplishing the purposes of the Issuer Trust.  The Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and responsibilities of the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees, or any of the duties and responsibilities of the Issuer Trustees generally, set forth herein. The Delaware Trustee shall be one of the trustees of the Issuer Trust for the sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and for taking such actions as are required to be taken by a Delaware trustee under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.
.
Section 2.7            
Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions
(a)           The Issuer Trustees shall conduct the affairs of the Issuer Trust in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement. Subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, and in accordance with the following provisions (i) and (ii), the Issuer Trustees shall have the authority to enter into all transactions and agreements determined by the Issuer Trustees to be appropriate in exercising the authority, express or implied, otherwise granted to the Issuer Trustees under this Trust Agreement, and to perform all acts in furtherance thereof, including the following:
(i)            As among the Issuer Trustees, the Administrative Trustees shall have the power and authority to act on behalf of the Issuer Trust with respect to the following matters:
the issuance and sale of the Trust Securities;
(A)
                             
 
to perform on behalf of the Issuer Trust, the Underwriting Agreement and the current form of letter of representations required by DTC and such other agreements as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the purposes and function of the Issuer Trust;
(B)
                               
assisting in the registration of the Capital Securities under the Securities Act and under state securities or blue sky laws, and the qualification of the Capital Securities and this Trust Agreement under the Trust Indenture Act;
(C)
                               
assisting in the listing of the Capital Securities upon such securities exchange or exchanges as shall be determined by the Depositor, with the registration of the Capital Securities under the Exchange Act, if required, and with the preparation and filing of all periodic and other reports and other documents pursuant to the foregoing;
(D)
                              
assisting in the sending of notices (other than notices of default) and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement;
(E)
                                
the appointment of a Paying Agent and Securities Registrar in accordance with this Trust Agreement;
(F)
                                
to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Issuer Trust and the execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;
(G)
                               
execution of the Trust Securities on behalf of the Issuer Trust in accordance with this Trust Agreement;
(H)
                              
execution and delivery of closing certificates, if any, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and application for a taxpayer identification number for the Issuer Trust;
(I)
                                   
unless otherwise determined by the Depositor, the Property Trustee, or the Administrative Trustees or as otherwise required by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act or the Trust Indenture Act, to execute on behalf of the Issuer Trust (either acting alone or together with any or all of the Administrative Trustees) any documents that the Administrative Trustees have the power to execute pursuant to this Trust Agreement; and
(J)
                                  
the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as the Issuer Trustees may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement.
(K)
                              
 
(ii)           As among the Issuer Trustees, the Property Trustee shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Issuer Trust with respect to the following matters:
the establishment of the Payment Account;
(A)
                             
the receipt of the Debentures;
(B)
                               
the collection of interest, principal and any other payments made in respect of the Debentures and the holding of such amounts in the Payment Account;
(C)
                               
the distribution through the Paying Agent of amounts distributable to the Holders in respect of the Trust Securities;
(D)
                              
the exercise of all of the rights, powers and privileges of a holder of the Debentures;
(E)
                                
the defense of all claims and demands of all Persons at any time claiming any liens on any Trust Property adverse to the interest of the Issuer Trust or the Holders in their capacity as Holders;
(F)
                                
the sending of notices of default and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement;
(G)
                               
the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement;
(H)
                              
to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up of the affairs of and liquidation of the Issuer Trust and the preparation, execution and filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;
(I)
                                   
after an Event of Default (other than under paragraph (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the definition of such term if such Event of Default is by or with respect to the Property Trustee), the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as the Property Trustee may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement and protect and conserve the Trust Property for the benefit of the Holders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any particular Holder); and
(J)
                                  
except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.7(a)(ii), the Property Trustee shall have none of the duties, liabilities, powers or the authority of the Administrative Trustees set forth in Section 2.7(a)(i).
(K)
                              
 
(b)           So long as this Trust Agreement remains in effect, the Issuer Trust (or the Issuer Trustees acting on behalf of the Issuer Trust) shall not undertake any business, activities or transactions except as expressly provided herein or contemplated hereby. In particular, the Issuer Trustees (acting on behalf of the Issuer Trust) shall not:
acquire any investments or assets other than as provided herein, or engage in any activities not authorized by this Trust Agreement;
(A)
                             
sell, assign, transfer, exchange, mortgage, pledge, set-off or otherwise dispose of any of the Trust Property or interests therein, including to Holders, except as expressly provided herein;
(B)
                               
take any action or fail take any action that would reasonably be expected to cause the Issuer Trust to become taxable as a partnership or a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes;
(C)
                               
incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or issue any other debt;
(D)
                              
take or consent to any action that would result in the placement of a Lien on any of the Trust Property;
(E)
                                
invest any proceeds received by the Issuer Trust from holding the Debentures, but shall distribute all such proceeds to Holders of Trust Securities pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement and of the Trust Securities;
(F)
                                
acquire any assets other than the Trust Property;
(G)
                               
have any power to, or consent to any action that would vary the investments (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-4(c)) of the Issuer Trust or of the Holders;
(H)
                              
possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the terms of the Trust Securities in any way whatsoever (except to the extent expressly authorized in this Trust Agreement or by the terms of the Trust Securities); or
(I)
                                   
issue any securities or other evidences of beneficial ownership of, or beneficial interest in, the Issuer Trust other than the Trust Securities.
(J)
                                  
(c)           In connection with the issuance and sale of the Capital Securities, the Depositor shall have the right and responsibility to assist the Issuer Trust with respect to, or effect on behalf of the Issuer Trust, the following (and any actions taken by the Depositor in furtherance of the following prior to the date of this Trust Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects):
 
(i)            the preparation and filing by the Issuer Trust with the Commission of and the execution on behalf of the Issuer Trust of a registration statement on the appropriate form in relation to the Capital Securities, including any amendments thereto;
(ii)           the determination of the states in which to take appropriate action to qualify or register for sale all or part of the Capital Securities and the determination of any and all such acts, other than actions that must be taken by or on behalf of the Issuer Trust, and the advice to the Issuer Trustees of actions they must take on behalf of the Issuer Trust, and the preparation for execution and filing of any documents to be executed and filed by the Issuer Trust or on behalf of the Issuer Trust, as the Depositor deems necessary or advisable in order to comply with the applicable laws of any such states;
(iii)          the negotiation of the terms of, and the execution and delivery of, the Underwriting Agreement providing for the sale of the Capital Securities; and
(iv)          the taking of any other actions necessary or desirable to carry out any of the foregoing activities.
(d)           Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Administrative Trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs of the Issuer Trust and to operate the Issuer Trust so that the Issuer Trust will not be deemed to be an "investment company" required to be registered under the Investment Company Act, and will not be taxable as a partnership or a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes and so that the Debentures will be treated as indebtedness of the Depositor for United States federal income tax purposes. In this connection, the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees are authorized to take any action, not inconsistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Trust or this Trust Agreement, that they determine in their discretion to be necessary or desirable for such purposes, as long as such action does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders of the Outstanding Capital Securities or cause the Issuer Trust to be treated as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes. In no event shall the Depositor or the Issuer Trustees be liable to the Issuer Trust or the Holders for any failure to comply with this section that results from a change in law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof.
.
Section 2.8            
Assets of Trust
The assets of the Issuer Trust shall consist solely of the Trust Property.
.
Section 2.9            
Title to Trust Property
Legal title to all Trust Property shall be vested at all times in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) and shall be held and administered by the Property Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Issuer Trust and the Holders in accordance with and as limited by this Trust Agreement.
 
Section 3.1            
Payment Account.
(a)           On or prior to the Closing Date, the Property Trustee shall establish the Payment Account. The Property Trustee and its agents shall have exclusive control and sole right of withdrawal with respect to the Payment Account for the purpose of making deposits in and withdrawals from the Payment Account in accordance with this Trust Agreement. All monies and other property deposited or held from time to time in the Payment Account shall be held by the Property Trustee in the Payment Account for the exclusive benefit of the Holders and for distribution as herein provided, including (and subject to) any priority of payments provided for herein.
(b)           The Property Trustee shall deposit in the Payment Account, promptly upon receipt, all payments of principal of or interest on, and any other payments or proceeds with respect to, the Debentures. Amounts held in the Payment Account shall not be invested by the Property Trustee pending distribution thereof.
Section 4.1            
Distributions.
(a)           The Trust Securities represent undivided beneficial interests in the Trust Property, and Distributions (including of Additional Amounts) will be made on the Trust Securities at the rate and on the dates that payments of interest (including of Additional Interest, as defined in the Indenture) are made on the Debentures.  Accordingly:
(i)            Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be cumulative, and will accumulate whether or not there are funds of the Issuer Trust available for the payment of Distributions. Distributions shall accumulate from April 30, 2007 and, except in the event (and to the extent) (x) that the Depositor exercises its right to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures pursuant to the Indenture or (y) that the interest on the Floating Rate Capital Securities is payable after the Scheduled Maturity Date as described in Section 4.1(b), they shall be payable (i) quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2017 until June 15, 2047, and (iii) thereafter monthly in arrears the 15th day of each month, or if this day is not a Business Day, on the next Business Day.  If any date on which a Distribution is otherwise payable on the Trust Securities is not a Business Day, then the payment of such Distribution shall be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) with the same force and effect as if made on the date on which such payment was originally payable (each date on which distributions are payable in accordance with this Section 4.1(a), a "").
Distribution Date
(ii)           The Trust Securities shall be entitled to Distributions at the Distribution Rate in respect of the Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities. The amount of Distributions payable for any period shall include any Additional Amounts in respect of such period.
 
(iii)          Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be made by the Property Trustee from the Payment Account and shall be payable on each Distribution Date only to the extent that the Issuer Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Distributions.
(b)           Distributions on the Trust Securities with respect to a Distribution Date shall be payable to the Holders thereof as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities at the close of business on the relevant record date, which, as long as the Capital Securities remain in book-entry only form, will be at the close of business on the Business Day next preceding the relevant Distribution Date.  In the event that the Capital Securities do not continue to remain in book-entry form, the record date for payment of Distributions shall be at the close of business on the fifteenth day (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding the relevant Distribution Date.
Redemption.
Section 4.2            
(a)           On each Debenture Redemption Date and on the stated maturity of the Debentures, the Issuer Trust will be required to redeem a Like Amount of Trust Securities at the Redemption Price.
(b)           Notice of redemption shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date to each Holder of Trust Securities to be redeemed, at such Holder's address appearing in the Security Register. All notices of redemption shall state:
(i)            the Redemption Date;
(ii)           the Redemption Price or if the Redemption Price cannot be calculated prior to the time the notice is required to be sent, the estimate of the Redemption Price together with a statement that it is an estimate and that the actual Redemption Price will be calculated on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date (and if an estimate is provided, a further notice shall be sent of the actual Redemption Price on the date that such Redemption Price is calculated);
(iii)          the CUSIP number or CUSIP numbers of the Capital Securities affected;
(iv)          if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed, the identification and the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the particular Trust Securities to be redeemed;
(v)           that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Trust Security to be redeemed and that Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate on and after said date, except as provided in Section 4.2(d) below; and
(vi)          if the Capital Securities are no longer in book-entry-only form, the place or places where the Capital Securities Certificates are to be surrendered for the payment of the Redemption Price.
 
(c)           The Trust Securities redeemed on each Redemption Date shall be redeemed at the Redemption Price with the proceeds from the contemporaneous redemption of Debentures. Redemptions of the Trust Securities shall be made and the Redemption Price shall be payable on each Redemption Date only to the extent that the Issuer Trust has funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Redemption Price.
(d)           If the Property Trustee gives a notice of redemption in respect of any Capital Securities, then, by 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Redemption Date, subject to Section 4.2(c), the Property Trustee will, with respect to Book-Entry Capital Securities, irrevocably deposit with the Clearing Agency for such Book-Entry Capital Securities, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give such Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Capital Securities. With respect to Capital Securities that are not Book-Entry Capital Securities, the Property Trustee, subject to Section 4.2(c), will irrevocably deposit with the Paying Agent, to the extent available therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will give the Paying Agent irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Capital Securities upon surrender of their Capital Securities Certificates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Distributions payable on or prior to the Redemption Date for any Trust Securities called for redemption shall be payable to the Holders of such Trust Securities as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities on the relevant record dates for the related Distribution Dates. If notice of redemption shall have been given and funds deposited as required, then upon the date of such deposit, all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities so called for redemption will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive the Redemption Price and any Distribution payable in respect of the Trust Securities on or prior to the Redemption Date, but without interest, and such Trust Securities will cease to be outstanding. In the event that any date on which any Redemption Price is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay). In the event that payment of the Redemption Price in respect of any Trust Securities called for redemption is improperly withheld or refused and not paid either by the Issuer Trust or by the Depositor pursuant to the Guarantee, Distributions on such Trust Securities will continue to accumulate, as set forth in Section 4.1, from the Redemption Date originally established by the Issuer Trust for such Trust Securities to the date such Redemption Price is actually paid, in which case the actual payment date will be the date fixed for redemption for purposes of calculating the Redemption Price.
(e)           Subject to Section 4.3(a), if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed on a Redemption Date, then the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Trust Securities to be redeemed shall be allocated pro rata to the Common Securities and the Capital Securities based upon the relative Liquidation Amounts of such classes. The particular Capital Securities to be redeemed shall be selected on a pro rata basis based upon their respective Liquidation Amounts not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Property Trustee from the Outstanding Capital Securities not previously called for redemption, provided that so long as the Capital Securities are in book-entry-only form, such selection shall be made in accordance with the customary procedures for the Clearing Agency for the Capital Securities.  The Property Trustee shall promptly notify the Securities Registrar in writing of the Capital Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Capital Securities selected for partial redemption, the
 
Liquidation Amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Capital Securities shall relate, in the case of any Capital Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Capital Securities that has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 4.3            
Subordination of Common Securities.
(a) Payment of Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, the Redemption Price of, and the Liquidation Distribution in respect of the Trust Securities, as applicable, shall be made, subject to Section 4.2(e), pro rata among the Common Securities and the Capital Securities based on the Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities; provided, however, that if on any Distribution Date, Redemption Date or Liquidation Date any Event of Default resulting from a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 5.1 of the Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing, no payment of any Distribution (including any Additional Amounts) on, Redemption Price of, or Liquidation Distribution in respect of any Common Security, and no other payment on account of the redemption, liquidation or other acquisition of Common Securities, shall be made unless payment in full in cash of all accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on all Outstanding Capital Securities for all Distribution Periods terminating on or prior thereto, or in the case of payment of the Redemption Price the full amount of such Redemption Price on all Outstanding Capital Securities then called for redemption, or in the case of payment of the Liquidation Distribution the full amount of such Liquidation Distribution on all Outstanding Capital Securities, shall have been made or provided for, and all funds immediately available to the Property Trustee shall first be applied to the payment in full in cash of all Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on, or the Redemption Price of, Liquidation Distribution of the Capital Securities then due and payable.
(b) In the case of the occurrence of any Event of Default resulting from any Debenture Event of Default, the Holders of the Common Securities shall have no right to act with respect to any such Event of Default under this Trust Agreement until the effect of all such Events of Default with respect to the Capital Securities have been cured, waived or otherwise eliminated. Until all such Events of Default under this Trust Agreement with respect to the Capital Securities have been so cured, waived or otherwise eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act solely on behalf of the Holders of the Capital Securities and not on behalf of the Holders of the Common Securities, and only the Holders of the Capital Securities will have the right to direct the Property Trustee to act on their behalf.
 
Section 4.4            
Payment Procedures.
Payments of Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) in respect of the Capital Securities shall be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or, if the Capital Securities are held by a Clearing Agency, such Distributions shall be made to the Clearing Agency in immediately available funds. Payments in respect of the Common Securities shall be made in such manner as shall be mutually agreed between the Property Trustee and the Holders of the Common Securities.
Section 4.5            
Tax Returns and Reports.
The Administrative Trustees shall prepare (or cause to be prepared), at the Depositor's expense, and file all United States federal, state and local tax and information returns and reports required to be filed by or in respect of the Issuer Trust. In this regard, the Administrative Trustees shall (a) prepare and file (or cause to be prepared and filed) all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be filed in respect of the Issuer Trust in each taxable year of the Issuer Trust, and (b) prepare and furnish (or cause to be prepared and furnished) to each Holder all Internal Revenue Service forms required to be provided by the Issuer Trust. The Administrative Trustees shall provide the Depositor and the Property Trustee with a copy of all such returns and reports promptly after such filing or furnishing. The Issuer Trustees shall comply with United States federal withholding and backup withholding tax laws and information reporting requirements with respect to any payments to Holders under the Trust Securities.
Section 4.6            
Payment of Expenses of the Issuer Trust.
The Depositor shall pay to the Issuer Trust, and reimburse the Issuer Trust for, the full amount of any costs, expenses or liabilities of the Issuer Trust (other than obligations of the Issuer Trust to pay the Holders of any Capital Securities or other similar interests in the Issuer Trust the amounts due such Holders pursuant to the terms of the Capital Securities or such other similar interests, as the case may be), including, without limitation, any taxes, duties or other governmental charges of whatever nature (other than withholding taxes) imposed on the Issuer Trust by the United States or any other taxing authority.  Such payment obligation includes any such costs, expenses or liabilities of the Issuer Trust that are required by applicable law to be satisfied in connection with a dissolution of the Issuer Trust.
Section 4.7            
Payments under Indenture or Pursuant to Direct Actions.
Any amount payable hereunder to any Holder of Capital Securities (or any Owner with respect thereto) shall be reduced by the amount of any corresponding payment such Holder (or Owner) has directly received pursuant to Section 5.8 of the Indenture or Section 5.14 of this Trust Agreement.
 
Section 5.1            
Initial Ownership.
Upon the formation of the Issuer Trust and the contribution by the Depositor pursuant to Section 2.3 and until the issuance of the Trust Securities, and at any time during which no Trust Securities are outstanding, the Depositor shall be the sole beneficial owner of the Issuer Trust.  The Depositor agrees to take the position, for United States federal and state income tax purposes, that (i) the Issuer Trust is a grantor trust and not a partnership or an association taxable as a corporation, and (ii) the Debentures constitute indebtedness of the Depositor.
Section 5.2            
The Trust Securities Certificates.
The Capital Securities Certificates shall be issued in minimum denominations of $1,000 Liquidation Amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, and the Common Securities Certificates shall be issued in denominations of $1,000 Liquidation Amount and integral multiples thereof.  The Trust Securities Certificates shall be (i) executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust by manual or facsimile signature of at least one Administrative Trustee and, if executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust by facsimile, countersigned by a transfer agent or its agent and (ii) authenticated by the Property Trustee by manual or facsimile signature of an authorized signatory thereof and, if executed by such authorized signatory of the Property Trustee by facsimile, countersigned by a transfer agent or its agent.  Trust Securities Certificates bearing the manual signatures of individuals who were, at the time when such signatures shall have been affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Issuer Trust or the Property Trustee or, if executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust or the Property Trustee by facsimile, countersigned by a transfer agent or its agent, shall be validly issued and entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them shall have ceased to be so authorized prior to the delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates.  A transferee of a Trust Securities Certificate shall become a Holder, and shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations of a Holder hereunder, upon due registration of such Trust Securities Certificate in such transferee's name pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.11, 5.13 and 5.15.
Section 5.3            
Execution and Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates.
At the Time of Delivery, the Administrative Trustees shall cause Trust Securities Certificates, in an aggregate Liquidation Amount as provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.5, to be executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust and delivered to or upon the written order of the Depositor, executed by one authorized officer thereof, without further corporate action by the Depositor, in authorized denominations.
Section 5.4            
Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Capital Securities Certificates.
The Depositor shall keep or cause to be kept, at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, a register or registers for the purpose of registering Trust Securities Certificates and transfers and exchanges of Capital Securities Certificates (the "") in which the transfer agent and registrar designated by the Depositor (the ""),
Securities Register
Securities Registrar
 
subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, shall provide for the registration of Capital Securities Certificates and Common Securities Certificates (subject to Section 5.10 in the case of the Common Securities Certificates) and registration of transfers and exchanges of Capital Securities Certificates as herein provided.  The Bank shall be the initial Securities Registrar.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Capital Securities Certificate at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, the Administrative Trustees or any one of them shall execute on behalf of the Issuer Trust (and if executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust by a facsimile signature, such certificate shall be countersigned by a transfer agent or its agent) and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Capital Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of a like aggregate Liquidation Amount dated the date of execution by such Administrative Trustee or Trustees.  The Securities Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of any Capital Securities that have been called for redemption during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection for such redemption.
At the option of a Holder, Capital Securities Certificates may be exchanged for other Capital Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of the same class and of a like aggregate Liquidation Amount upon surrender of the Capital Securities Certificates to be exchanged at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.8.
Every Capital Securities Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to an Administrative Trustee and the Securities Registrar duly executed by the Holder or, his attorney duly authorized in writing.  Each Capital Securities Certificate surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be cancelled and subsequently disposed of by an Administrative Trustee or the Securities Registrar in accordance with such Person's customary practice.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Capital Securities Certificates, but the Securities Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Capital Securities Certificates.
Section 5.5            
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates.
If (a) any mutilated Trust Securities Certificate shall be surrendered to the Securities Registrar, or if the Securities Registrar shall receive evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Securities Certificate, and (b) there shall be delivered to the Securities Registrar and the Administrative Trustees such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then in the absence of notice that such Trust Securities Certificate shall have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, on behalf of the Issuer Trust shall execute and make available for delivery, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Securities Certificate, a new Trust Securities Certificate of like class, tenor and denomination. In connection with the issuance of any new Trust Securities Certificate under this Section 5.5, the Administrative Trustees or the Securities Registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient
 
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Any duplicate Trust Securities Certificate issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute conclusive evidence of an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Issuer Trust corresponding to that evidenced by the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate, as if originally issued, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate shall be found at any time.
Section 5.6            
Persons Deemed Holders.
The Issuer Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall each treat the Person in whose name any Trust Securities Certificate shall be registered in the Securities Register as the Owner of such Trust Securities Certificate for the purpose of receiving Distributions and for all other purposes whatsoever, and none of the Issuer Trustees, the Administrative Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall be bound by any notice to the contrary.
Section 5.7            
Access to List of Holders' Names and Addresses.
Each Holder and each Owner shall be deemed to have agreed not to hold the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative Trustees accountable by reason of the disclosure of its name and address, regardless of the source from which such information was derived.
Section 5.8            
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Administrative Trustees shall designate an office or offices or agency or agencies where Capital Securities Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer Trustees in respect of the Trust Securities Certificates may be served. The Administrative Trustees initially designate U.S. Bank National Association, 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, New York 10005, as its office and agency for such purposes. The Administrative Trustee shall give prompt written notice to the Depositor, the Property Trustees and to the Holders of any change in the location of the Securities Register or any such office or agency.
Section 5.9            
Appointment of Paying Agent.
The Paying Agent shall make Distributions to Holders from the Payment Account and shall report the amounts of such Distributions to the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. Any Paying Agent shall have the revocable power to withdraw funds from the Payment Account solely for the purpose of making the Distributions referred to above. The Property Trustee may revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent in its sole discretion. The Paying Agent shall initially be the Bank. Any Person acting as Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying Agent upon 30 days' written notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee. If the Bank shall no longer be the Paying Agent or a successor Paying Agent shall resign or its authority to act be revoked, the Property Trustee shall appoint a successor (which shall be a bank or trust company) that is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees to act as Paying Agent. Such successor Paying Agent or any additional Paying Agent shall execute and deliver to the Issuer Trustees an instrument in which such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent shall agree with the Issuer Trustees that as Paying Agent, such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent will hold all sums, if any, held by it for payment to the Holders
 
in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Holders. The Paying Agent shall return all unclaimed funds to the Property Trustee and upon removal of a Paying Agent such Paying Agent shall also return all funds in its possession to the Property Trustee. The provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Bank also in its role as Paying Agent, for so long as the Bank shall act as Paying Agent and, to the extent applicable, to any other paying agent appointed hereunder. Any reference in this Agreement to the Paying Agent shall include any co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise.
Section 5.10          
Ownership of Common Securities by Depositor.
At the Time of Delivery, the Depositor shall acquire, and thereafter shall retain, beneficial and record ownership of the Common Securities.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, other than a transfer in connection with a consolidation or merger of the Depositor into another Person, or any conveyance, transfer or lease by the Depositor of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, pursuant to Section 8.1 of the Indenture, any attempted transfer of the Common Securities shall be void.  The Administrative Trustees shall cause each Common Securities Certificate issued to the Depositor to contain a legend stated "THIS CERTIFICATE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON EXCEPT TO THE DEPOSITOR OR AN AFFILIATE OF THE DEPOSITOR IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW AND SECTION 5.10 OF THE TRUST AGREEMENT."
Section 5.11          
Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificate.
(a)           The Capital Securities Certificates, upon original issuance, will be issued in the form of a typewritten Capital Securities Certificate or Certificates representing Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates, to be delivered to DTC, the initial Clearing Agency, by, or on behalf of, the Issuer Trust.  Such Capital Securities Certificate or Certificates shall initially be registered on the Securities Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the initial Clearing Agency, and no Owner will receive a Definitive Capital Securities Certificate representing such Owner's interest in such Capital Securities, except as provided in Section 5.13.  Unless and until Definitive Capital Securities Certificates have been issued to Owners pursuant to Section 5.13;
(i)            the provisions of this Section 5.11(a) shall be in full force and effect;
(ii)           the Securities Registrar and the Trustees shall be entitled to deal with the Clearing Agency for all purposes of this Trust Agreement relating to the Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates (including the payment of the Liquidation Amount of and Distributions on the Capital Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates and the giving of instructions or directions to Owners of Capital Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates) as the sole Holder of Capital Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates and shall have no obligations to the Owners thereof;
(iii)          to the extent that the provisions of this Section 5.11 conflict with any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, the provisions of this Section 5.11 shall control; and
(iv)          the rights of the Owners of the Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificate shall be exercised only through the Clearing Agency and shall be limited to those established by
 
law and agreements between such Owners and the Clearing Agency and/or the Clearing Agency Participants.  Pursuant to the current letter of representations required by DTC, unless and until Definitive Capital Securities Certificates are issued pursuant to Section 5.13, the initial Clearing Agency will make book-entry transfers among the Clearing Agency Participants and receive and transmit payments on the Capital Securities to such Clearing Agency Participants.
(b)           A single Common Securities Certificate representing the Common Securities shall be issued to the Depositor in the form of a definitive Common Securities Certificate.
Section 5.12          
Notices to Clearing Agency.
To the extent that a notice or other communication to the Holders is required under this Trust Agreement, for so long as Capital Securities are represented by a Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificate, the Administrative Trustees and the Issuer Trustee shall give all such notices and communications specified herein to be given to the Clearing Agency, and shall have no obligations to the Owners.
Section 5.13          
Definitive Capital Securities Certificates.
If (a) the Depositor advises the Issuer Trustees in writing that the Clearing Agency is no longer willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Capital Securities Certificates, and the Depositor is unable to locate a qualified successor, (b) the Depositor at its option advises the Issuer Trustees in writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing Agency or (c) after the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default, Owners of Capital Securities Certificates representing beneficial interests aggregating at least a majority of the Liquidation Amount advise the Administrative Trustees in writing that the continuation of a book-entry system through the Clearing Agency is no longer in the best interest of the Owners of Capital Securities Certificates, then the Administrative Trustees shall notify the other Issuer Trustees and the Clearing Agency, and the Clearing Agency, in accordance with its customary rules and procedures, shall notify all Clearing Agency Participants for whom it holds Capital Securities of the occurrence of any such event and of the availability of the Definitive Capital Securities Certificates to Owners of such class or classes, as applicable, requesting the same.  Upon surrender to the Administrative Trustees of the typewritten Capital Securities Certificate or Certificates representing the Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificates by the Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration instructions, the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, shall execute the Definitive Capital Securities Certificates in accordance with the instructions of the Clearing Agency, if executed on behalf of the Issuer Trust by facsimile, countersigned by a transfer agent or its agent.  Neither the Securities Registrar nor the Issuer Trustees shall be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions.  Upon the issuance of Definitive Capital Securities Certificates, the Issuer Trustees shall recognize the Holders of the Definitive Capital Securities Certificates as Trust Security Holders.  The Definitive Capital Securities Certificates shall be typewritten, printed, lithographed or engraved or may be produced in any other manner as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees that meets the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Capital Securities are then listed or approved for trading, as evidenced by the execution thereof by the Administrative Trustees or any one of them.
 
Section 5.14          
Rights of Holders; Waivers of Past Defaults.
(a)           The legal title to the Trust Property is vested exclusively in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) in accordance with Section 2.9, and the Holders shall not have any right or title therein other than the undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Issuer Trust conferred by their Trust Securities and they shall have no right to call for any partition or division of property, profits or rights of the Issuer Trust except as described below. The Trust Securities shall be personal property giving only the rights specifically set forth therein and in this Trust Agreement. The Trust Securities shall have no preemptive or similar rights and when issued and delivered to Holders against payment of the purchase price therefor will be fully paid and nonassessable by the Issuer Trust. The Holders of the Trust Securities, in their capacities as such, shall be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(b)           For so long as any Capital Securities remain Outstanding, if, upon a Debenture Event of Default, the Indenture Trustee fails or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Debentures fail to declare the principal and accrued interest including additional interest of all of the Debentures to be immediately due and payable, the Holders of at least 25% in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities then Outstanding shall have the right to make such declaration by a notice in writing to the Property Trustee, the Depositor and the Indenture Trustee.
At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Debentures has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Indenture Trustee as in the Indenture provided, if the Property Trustee fails to annul any such declaration and waive such default, the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, by written notice to the Property Trustee, the Depositor and the Indenture Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(i)            the Depositor has paid or deposited with the Indenture Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
all overdue installments of interest on all of the Debentures,
(A)
                             
any accrued Additional Interest on all of the Debentures,
(B)
                               
the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Debentures that have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest and Additional Interest thereon at the rate borne by the Debentures, and
(C)
                               
all sums paid or advanced by the Indenture Trustee under the Indenture and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Indenture Trustee and the Property Trustee, their agents and counsel; and
(D)
                              
 
(ii)           all Events of Default with respect to the Debentures, other than the non-payment of the principal of the Debentures that has become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13 of the Indenture.
The Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Capital Securities, waive any past default under the Indenture, except a default in the payment of principal or interest (unless such default has been cured and a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest and principal due otherwise than by acceleration has been deposited with the Indenture Trustee) or a default in respect of a covenant or provision that under the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each outstanding Debenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Upon receipt by the Property Trustee of written notice declaring such an acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, by Holders of any part of the Capital Securities a record date shall be established for determining Holders of Outstanding Capital Securities entitled to join in such notice, which record date shall be at the close of business on the day the Property Trustee receives such notice. The Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having joined in such notice prior to the day that is 90 days after such record date, such notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be cancelled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a Holder, from giving, after expiration of such 90-day period, a new written notice of declaration of acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, as the case may be, that is identical to a written notice that has been cancelled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.14(b).
(c)           For so long as any Capital Securities remain Outstanding, to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the terms of this Trust Agreement and the Indenture, upon a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 5.1(1) or 5.1(2) of the Indenture, any Holder of Capital Securities shall have the right to institute a proceeding directly against the Depositor, pursuant to Section 5.8 of the Indenture, for enforcement of payment to such Holder of any amounts payable in respect of Debentures having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities of such Holder (a "Direct Action"). Except as set forth in Section 5.14(b) and this Section 5.14(c), the Holders of Capital Securities shall have no right to exercise directly any right or remedy available to the holders of, or in respect of, the Debentures.
(d)           Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 5.14, the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Capital Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences.  Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every
 
purpose of this Trust Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.15          
Tax Treatment by the Holders.
Each Holder or beneficial owner, including any transferee, of any Trust Securities agrees, for United States federal income tax purposes:
to treat the Issuer Trust as a grantor trust and not as a partnership or any association taxable as a corporation;
(a)
                                 
(b)           to the treatment of such Holder or beneficial owner as an owner of an undivided interest in the Debentures; and
(c)           to treat the Debentures as indebtedness of Debentures Issuer.
Section 5.16          
CUSIP Numbers.
The Administrative Trustees in issuing the Capital Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Property Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Capital Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Capital Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Administrative Trustees will promptly notify the Property Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
Section 6.1            
Limitations on Voting Rights.
(a)           Except as expressly provided in this Trust Agreement and in the Indenture and as otherwise required by law, no Holder of Capital Securities shall have any right to vote or in any manner otherwise control the administration, operation and management of the Issuer Trust or the obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set forth, or contained in the terms of the Trust Securities Certificates, be construed so as to constitute the Holders from time to time as partners or members of an association.
(b)           So long as any Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of the Issuer Trust, the Issuer Trustees shall not (i) direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Indenture Trustee, or execute any trust or power conferred on the Indenture Trustee with respect to the Debentures, (ii) waive any past default that may be waived under Section 5.13 of the Indenture, (iii) exercise any right to rescind or annul a declaration that the principal of all the Debentures shall be due and payable, or (iv) consent to any amendment, modification or termination of the Indenture or the Debentures, where such consent shall be required, without, in each case, obtaining the prior approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, provided, however, that where
 
a consent under the Indenture would require the consent of each holder of Debentures affected thereby, no such consent shall be given by the Property Trustee without the prior written consent of each Holder of Capital Securities. The Issuer Trustees shall not revoke any action previously authorized or approved by a vote of the Holders of the Capital Securities, except by a subsequent vote of the Holders of the Capital Securities. The Property Trustee shall notify all Holders of the Capital Securities of any notice of default received with respect to the Debentures. In addition to obtaining the foregoing approvals of the Holders of the Capital Securities, prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Issuer Trustees shall, at the expense of the Depositor, obtain an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that such action shall not cause the Issuer Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes.
(c)           If any proposed amendment to the Trust Agreement provides for, or the Issuer Trustees otherwise propose to effect, (i) any action that would adversely affect in any material respect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Capital Securities, whether by way of amendment to the Trust Agreement or otherwise, or (ii) the dissolution and winding-up of the Issuer Trust, other than pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement, then the Holders of Outstanding Capital Securities as a class will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Trust Agreement, no amendment to this Trust Agreement may be made if, as a result of such amendment, it would cause the Issuer Trust to be taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes.
Section 6.2            
Notice of Meetings.
Notice of all meetings of the Holders of the Capital Securities, stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting, shall be given by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 10.8 to each Holder of Capital Securities, at such Holder's registered address, at least 15 days and not more than 90 days before the meeting. At any such meeting, any business properly before the meeting may be so considered whether or not stated in the notice of the meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice.
Section 6.3            
Meetings of Holders of the Capital Securities.
No annual meeting of Holders is required to be held. The Property Trustee, however, shall call a meeting of the Holders of the Capital Securities to vote on any matter upon the written request of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Capital Securities and the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee may, at any time in their discretion, call a meeting of the Holders of the Capital Securities to vote on any matters as to which such Holders are entitled to vote.
The Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Holders of the Capital Securities.
 
If a quorum is present at a meeting, an affirmative vote by the Holders present, in person or by proxy, holding Capital Securities representing at least a Majority in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities held by the Holders present, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting shall constitute the action of the Holders of the Capital Securities, unless this Trust Agreement requires a greater number of affirmative votes.
Section 6.4            
Voting Rights.
Holders shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of Liquidation Amount represented by their Outstanding Trust Securities in respect of any matter as to which such Holders are entitled to vote.
Section 6.5            
Proxies, etc.
At any meeting of Holders, any Holder entitled to vote thereat may vote by proxy, provided that no proxy shall be voted at any meeting unless it shall have been placed on file with the Property Trustee, or with such other officer or agent of the Issuer Trust as the Property Trustee may direct, for verification prior to the time at which such vote shall be taken. Pursuant to a resolution of the Property Trustee, proxies may be solicited in the name of the Property Trustee or one or more officers of the Property Trustee. Only Holders of record shall be entitled to vote. When Trust Securities are held jointly by several persons, any one of them may vote at any meeting in person or by proxy in respect of such Trust Securities, but if more than one of them shall be present at such meeting in person or by proxy, and such joint owners or their proxies so present disagree as to any vote to be cast, such vote shall not be received in respect of such Trust Securities. A proxy purporting to be executed by or on behalf of a Holder shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving invalidity shall rest on the challenger. No proxy shall be valid more than three years after its date of execution.
Section 6.6            
Holder Action by Written Consent.
Any action that may be taken by Holders at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if Holders holding at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of all Capital Securities entitled to vote in respect of such action (or such larger proportion thereof as shall be required by any other provision of this Trust Agreement) shall consent to the action in writing.
Section 6.7            
Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes.
For the purposes of determining the Holders who are entitled to notice of and to vote at any meeting or by written consent, or to participate in any distribution on the Trust Securities in respect of which a record date is not otherwise provided for in this Trust Agreement, or for the purpose of any other action, the Administrative Trustees may from time to time fix a date, not more than 90 days prior to the date of any meeting of Holders or the payment of a Distribution or other action, as the case may be, as a record date for the determination of the identity of the Holders of record for such purposes.
 
Section 6.8            
Acts of Holders.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Trust Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Property Trustee. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Trust Agreement and (subject to Section 8.1) conclusive in favor of the Issuer Trustees, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that any Issuer Trustee receiving the same deems sufficient.
The ownership of Trust Securities shall be proved by the Securities Register.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Trust Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Trust Security and the Holder of every Trust Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Issuer Trustees, or the Issuer Trust in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Trust Security.
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Trust Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such Liquidation Amount.
If any dispute shall arise between the Holders and the Issuer Trustees or among the Holders or the Issuer Trustees with respect to the authenticity, validity or binding nature of any request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver or other Act of such Holder or Issuer Trustee under this Article VI, then the determination of such matter by the Property Trustee shall be conclusive with respect to such matter.
A Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Depositor under the Guarantee to enforce its rights under the Guarantee without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee (as defined in the Guarantee), the Issuer Trust, any Issuer Trustee, or any person or entity.
 
Section 6.9            
Inspection of Records.
Upon reasonable notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee, the records of the Issuer Trust shall be open to inspection by Holders during normal business hours for any purpose reasonably related to such Holder's interest as a Holder.
Section 7.1            
Representations and Warranties of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee.
The Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, each severally on behalf of and as to itself, hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Depositor and the Holders that:
(a)           the Property Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the United States;
(b)           the Property Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement;
(c)           the Delaware Trustee is a national banking association, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the United States;
(d)           the Delaware Trustee has full corporate power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Trust Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement;
(e)           this Trust Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and constitutes the valid and legally binding agreement of each of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles;
(f)            the execution, delivery and performance of this Trust Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and do not require any approval of stockholders of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and such execution, delivery and performance will not (i) violate the Charter or By-laws of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, (ii) violate any provision of, or constitute, with or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of, any Lien on any properties included in the Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of, any indenture, mortgage, credit agreement, license or other agreement or instrument to which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee is a party or by which it is bound, or (iii) violate any law, governmental rule or regulation of the United States or the State of Delaware (with respect to the Delaware Trustee) or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (with respect to the Property Trustee), as the case may be, in each case governing the banking,
 
trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context) or any order, judgment or decree applicable to the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee;
(g)           neither the authorization, execution or delivery by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee of this Trust Agreement nor the consummation of any of the transactions by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as the case may be) contemplated herein requires the consent or approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with or the taking of any other action with respect to any governmental authority or agency under any existing law of the United States or the State of Delaware (with respect to the Delaware Trustee) or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (with respect to the Property Trustee), in each case governing the banking, trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context); and
(h)           there are no proceedings pending or, to the best of each of the Property Trustee's and the Delaware Trustee's knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee in any court or before any governmental authority, agency or arbitration board or tribunal that, individually or in the aggregate, would materially and adversely affect the Issuer Trust or would question the right, power and authority of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, to enter into or perform its obligations as one of the Trustees under this Trust Agreement.
Section 7.2            
Representations and Warranties of the Depositor.
The Depositor hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Holders that:
(a)           the Trust Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery on behalf of the Issuer Trust have been duly authorized and will have been duly and validly executed, issued and delivered by the Issuer Trustees pursuant to the terms and provisions of, and in accordance with the requirements of, this Trust Agreement, and the Holders will be, as of such date, entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement; and
(b)           there are no taxes, fees or other governmental charges payable by the Issuer Trust (or the Issuer Trustees on behalf of the Issuer Trust) under the laws of the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by any Issuer Trustee of this Trust Agreement.
Section 8.1            
Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(a)           The duties and responsibilities of the Issuer Trustees shall be as provided by this Trust Agreement, subject to Section 10.10 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 8.1(c), no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require any of the Issuer Trustees to expend or risk its or their own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its or their duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its or their rights or powers, if it or they shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein
 
expressly so provided, every provision of this Trust Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Issuer Trustees shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 8.1. Nothing in this Trust Agreement shall be construed to release an Administrative Trustee from liability for his or her own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or his or her own willful misconduct. To the extent that, at law or in equity, an Administrative Trustee has duties and liabilities relating to the Issuer Trust or to the Holders, such Administrative Trustee shall not be liable to the Issuer Trust or to any Holder for such Administrative Trustee's good faith reliance on the provisions of this Trust Agreement. The provisions of this Trust Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Depositor and the Holders to replace such other duties and liabilities of the Administrative Trustees.
(b)           All payments made by the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent in respect of the Trust Securities shall be made only from the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property and only to the extent that there shall be sufficient revenue or proceeds from the Trust Property to enable the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent to make payments in accordance with the terms hereof. Each Holder, by its acceptance of a Trust Security, agrees that it will look solely to the revenue and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent legally available for distribution to it as herein provided and that the Issuer Trustees are not personally liable to such Holder for any amount distributable in respect of any Trust Security or for any other liability in respect of any Trust Security. This Section 8.1(b) does not limit the liability of the Issuer Trustees expressly set forth elsewhere in this Trust Agreement or, in the case of the Property Trustee, in the Trust Indenture Act.
(c)           If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall enforce this Trust Agreement for the benefit of the Holders.
(d)           The Property Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 10.10), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Trust Agreement against the Property Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 5.14), the Property Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(e)           No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Property Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(i)            prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred:
the duties and obligations of the Property Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 10.10), and the Property Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such
(A)
                             
 
duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 10.10); and
in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Property Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Trust Agreement.
(B)
                               
(ii)           the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Property Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(iii)          the Property Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Property Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement;
(iv)          the Property Trustee's sole duty with respect to the custody, safe keeping and physical preservation of the Debentures and the Payment Account shall be to deal with such Property in a similar manner as the Property Trustee deals with similar property for its own account, subject to the protections and limitations on liability afforded to the Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement and the Trust Indenture Act;
(v)           the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any interest on any money received by it except as it may otherwise agree with the Depositor; and money held by the Property Trustee need not be segregated from other funds held by it except in relation to the Payment Account maintained by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 3.1 and except to the extent otherwise required by law;
(vi)          the Property Trustee shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the Administrative Trustees or the Depositor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall the Property Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Issuer Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Depositor; and
(vii)         Subject to Section 8.1(c), no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require the Property Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Property Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Trust Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
 
(f)            The Administrative Trustees shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the other Issuer Trustees or the Depositor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall either Administrative Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any other Issuer Trustee or the Depositor.
Section 8.2            
Certain Notices.
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Event of Default actually known to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 10.8, notice of such Event of Default to the Holders, the Administrative Trustees and the Depositor, unless such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived.
The Property Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Property Trustee shall have received written notice or a Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee charged with the administration of this Trust Agreement shall have obtained actual knowledge of such Event of Default.
Within five Business Days after the receipt of notice of the Depositor's exercise of its right to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures pursuant to the Indenture, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 10.8, notice of such exercise to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such exercise shall have been revoked.
Section 8.3            
Certain Rights of Property Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 8.1:
(a)           the Property Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting in good faith upon any resolution, Opinion of Counsel, certificate, written representation of a Holder or transferee, certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b)           if (i) in performing its duties under this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee is required to decide between alternative courses of action, (ii) in construing any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee finds the same ambiguous or inconsistent with any other provisions contained herein, or (iii) the Property Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of this Trust Agreement, then, except as to any matter as to which the Holders of the Capital Securities are entitled to vote under the terms of this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall deliver a notice to the Depositor requesting the Depositor's opinion as to the course of action to be taken and the Property Trustee shall take such action, or refrain from taking such action, as the Property Trustee shall deem advisable and in the best interests of the Holders, in which event the Property Trustee shall have no liability except for its own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct;
(c)           any direction or act of the Depositor contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate;
 
(d)           any direction or act of an Administrative Trustee contemplated by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by a certificate executed by such Administrative Trustee and setting forth such direction or act;
(e)           the Property Trustee shall have no duty to see to any recording, filing or registration of any instrument (including any financing or continuation statement or any filing under tax or securities laws) or any rerecording, refiling or re-registration thereof;
(f)            the Property Trustee may consult with counsel (which counsel may be counsel to the Depositor or any of its Affiliates, and may include any of its employees) and the advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon and in accordance with such advice; the Property Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Trust Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction;
(g)           the Property Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Trust Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Property Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; provided that, nothing contained in this Section 8.3(g) shall be taken to relieve the Property Trustee, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, of its obligation to exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement;
(h)           the Property Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by one or more Holders, but the Property Trustee may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit;
(i)            the Property Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, provided that the Property Trustee shall be responsible for its own negligence or misconduct with respect to selection of any agent or attorney appointed by it hereunder;
(j)            whenever in the administration of this Trust Agreement the Property Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Property Trustee (i) may request instructions from the Holders (which instructions may only be given by the Holders of the same proportion in Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities as would be entitled to direct the Property Trustee under the terms of the Trust Securities in respect of such remedy, right or action), (ii) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received, and (iii) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions; and
(k)           except as otherwise expressly provided by this Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee shall not be under any obligation to take any action that is discretionary under the provisions of this Trust Agreement.
 
No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on any Issuer Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it, in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which such Person shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to perform any such act or acts, or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to any Issuer Trustee shall be construed to be a duty.
Section 8.4            
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer Trust and the Depositor, and the Issuer Trustees do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Issuer Trustees shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Depositor of the proceeds of the Debentures.
Section 8.5            
May Hold Securities.
Any Issuer Trustee or any other agent of any Issuer Trustee or the Issuer Trust, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Trust Securities and, subject to Sections 8.8 and 8.13, and except as provided in the definition of the term "Outstanding" in Article I, may otherwise deal with the Issuer Trust with the same rights it would have if it were not Issuer Trustee or such other agent.
Section 8.6            
Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.
The Depositor agrees:
(a)           to pay to the Issuer Trustees from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by them hereunder as may be agreed by the Depositor and the Issuer Trustees from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(b)           except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Issuer Trustees upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Issuer Trustees in accordance with any provision of this Trust Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of their agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to their negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and
(c)           to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Issuer Trustee, (ii) any Affiliate of any Issuer Trustee, (iii) any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or agent of any Issuer Trustee, and (iv) any employee or agent of the Issuer Trust (referred to herein as an "Indemnified Person") from and against any loss, damage, liability, tax, penalty, expense or claim of any kind or nature whatsoever incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of the creation, operation or dissolution of the Issuer Trust or any act or omission performed or omitted by such Indemnified Person in good faith on behalf of the Issuer Trust and in a manner such Indemnified Person reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Indemnified Person by this Trust Agreement, except that no Indemnified Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any loss, damage or claim
 
incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct with respect to such acts or omissions.
The provisions of this Section 8.6 shall survive the termination of this Trust Agreement and the removal or resignation of any Issuer Trustee.
No Issuer Trustee may claim any Lien on any Trust Property as a result of any amount due pursuant to this Section 8.6.
The Depositor and any Issuer Trustee may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Issuer Trust, and the Issuer Trust and the Holders of Trust Securities shall have no rights by virtue of this Trust Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the business of the Issuer Trust, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. Neither the Depositor nor any Issuer Trustee shall be obligated to present any particular investment or other opportunity to the Issuer Trust even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Issuer Trust, could be taken by the Issuer Trust, and the Depositor and any Issuer Trustee shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a partner or fiduciary) or to recommend to others any such particular investment or other opportunity. Any Issuer Trustee may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Depositor or any Affiliate of the Depositor, or may act as depository for, trustee or agent for, or act on any committee or body of holders of, securities or other obligations of the Depositor or its Affiliates.
Section 8.7            
Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Issuer Trustees and Administrative Trustees.
(a)           There shall at all times be a Property Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall be a Person that is a national or state chartered bank and eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 8.7 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Property Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8.7, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article VIII. At the time of appointment, the Property Trustee must have securities rated in one of the three highest rating categories by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(b)           There shall at all times be one or more Administrative Trustees hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. Each Administrative Trustee shall be either a natural person who is at least 21 years of age or a legal entity that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind that entity.
 
(c)           There shall at all times be a Delaware Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities. The Delaware Trustee shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the State of Delaware, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the State of Delaware and that otherwise meets the requirements of applicable Delaware law and that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity.
Section 8.8            
Conflicting Interests.
(a)           If the Property Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Trust Agreement.
(b)           The Guarantee Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Trust Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 8.9            
Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee.
Unless a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, at any time or times, for the purpose of meeting the legal requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or of any jurisdiction in which any part of the Trust Property may at the time be located, the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees shall have the power to appoint, one or more Persons approved by the Property Trustee either to act as co-trustee, jointly with the Property Trustee, of all or any part of such Trust Property, or to the extent required by law to act as separate trustee of any such property, in either case with such powers as may be provided in the instrument of appointment, and to vest in such Person or Persons in the capacity aforesaid, any property, title, right or power deemed necessary or desirable, subject to the other provisions of this Section. If a Debenture Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee alone shall have the power to make such appointment.  Any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the United States, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the United States that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity.
Should any written instrument from the Depositor be required by any co-trustee or separate trustee so appointed for more fully confirming to such co-trustee or separate trustee such property, title, right, or power, any and all such instruments shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the Depositor.
Every co-trustee or separate trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, but to such extent only, be appointed subject to the following terms, namely:
(a)           The Trust Securities shall be executed by one or more Administrative Trustees, and the Trust Securities shall be delivered by the Property Trustee, and all rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereunder in respect of the custody of securities, cash and other personal property held by, or required to be deposited or pledged with, the Property Trustee specified hereunder shall be exercised solely by the Property Trustee and not by such co-trustee or separate trustee.
 
(b)           The rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereby conferred or imposed upon the Property Trustee in respect of any property covered by such appointment shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Property Trustee or by the Property Trustee and such co-trustee or separate trustee jointly, as shall be provided in the instrument appointing such co-trustee or separate trustee, except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act is to be performed, the Property Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such co-trustee or separate trustee.
(c)           The Property Trustee at any time, by an instrument in writing executed by it, with the written concurrence of the Depositor, may accept the resignation of or remove any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed under this Section 8.9, and, in case a Debenture Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall have power to accept the resignation of, or remove, any such co-trustee or separate trustee without the concurrence of the Depositor. Upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Depositor shall join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to effectuate such resignation or removal. A successor to any co-trustee or separate trustee so resigning or removed may be appointed in the manner provided in this Section 8.9.
(d)           No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of the Property Trustee or any other trustee hereunder.
(e)           The Property Trustee shall not be liable by reason of any act of a co-trustee or separate trustee.
(f)            Any Act of Holders delivered to the Property Trustee shall be deemed to have been delivered to each such co-trustee and separate trustee.
Section 8.10          
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
No resignation or removal of any Issuer Trustee (the "Relevant Trustee") and no appointment of a successor Issuer Trustee pursuant to this Article VIII shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Issuer Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11.
Subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Relevant Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Holders and by appointing a successor Relevant Trustee. The Relevant Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the eligibility requirements its expenses and charges to serve as the Relevant Trustee on a form provided by the Administrative Trustees, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges. If the instrument of acceptance by the successor Issuer Trustee required by Section 8.11 shall not have been delivered to the Relevant Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the Relevant Trustee may petition, at the expense of the, in the case of the Property Trustee, Depositor, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee.
Unless Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing any Trustee may be removed at any time by the Holder of Common Securities.  The Property Trustee or the
 
Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed by Act of the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, delivered to the Relevant Trustee (in its individual capacity and, in the case of the Property Trustee, on behalf of the Issuer Trust) (i) for cause (including upon the occurrence of a default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of any covenant or warranty of the Issuer Trustees in this Trust Agreement (other than (a) default by the Issuer Trust in the payment of any Distribution when it becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30 days or (b) default by the Issuer Trust in the payment of any Redemption Price of any Trust Security when it becomes due and payable) and continuation of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Issuer Trustees and to the Depositor by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Capital Securities a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a hereunder with respect to the Relevant Trustee), or (ii) if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at any time.  In no event will the Holders of the Capital Securities have the right to vote to appoint, remove or replace the Administrative Trustees, which voting rights are vested exclusively in the Depositor, as the Holder of Common Securities.
"Notice of Default"
If a resigning Issuer Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if an Issuer Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Issuer Trustee, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of any Issuer Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Capital Securities, by Act of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities then Outstanding delivered to such Relevant Trustee, may appoint a successor Relevant Trustee or Trustees, and such successor Issuer Trustee shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. If no successor Relevant Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Capital Securities and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 8.11, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Issuer Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee.
The Property Trustee shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of an Issuer Trustee and each appointment of a successor Issuer Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 10.8 and shall give notice to the Depositor and to the Administrative Trustees. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Relevant Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office if it is the Property Trustee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Trust Agreement, if any Delaware Trustee who is a natural person dies or becomes, in the opinion of the Holders of the Common Securities, incompetent or incapacitated, the vacancy created by such death, incompetence or incapacity may be filled by the Property Trustee following the procedures regarding expenses and charges set forth above (with the successor being a Person who satisfies the eligibility requirement for the Delaware Trustee set forth in Section 8.7).
Section 8.11          
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Relevant Trustee, the retiring Relevant Trustee and each successor Relevant Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall execute and deliver an amendment hereto wherein each successor Relevant Trustee shall accept
 
such appointment and which (a) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Relevant Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Relevant Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities and the Issuer Trust, and (b) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Issuer Trust by more than one Relevant Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such amendment shall constitute such Relevant Trustees co-trustees and upon the execution and delivery of such amendment the resignation or removal of the retiring Relevant Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Relevant Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Relevant Trustee; but, on request of the Issuer Trust or any successor Relevant Trustee such retiring Relevant Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Relevant Trustee all Trust Property, all proceeds thereof and money held by such retiring Relevant Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities and the Trust.
Upon request of any such successor Relevant Trustee, the Issuer Trust shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Relevant Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
No successor Relevant Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Relevant Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VIII.
Section 8.12          
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any Person into which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee or any Administrative Trustee that is not a natural person may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Relevant Trustee shall be a party, or any Person, succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of such Relevant Trustee, shall be the successor of such Relevant Trustee hereunder, provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article VIII and shall be bound by all the terms of this Trust Agreement, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
Section 8.13          
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Depositor or Issuer Trust.
If and when the Property Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Depositor or the Issuer Trust (or any other obligor upon the Capital Securities), the Property Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Depositor or the Issuer Trust (or any such other obligor).
 
Section 8.14          
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other similar judicial proceeding relative to the Issuer Trust or any other obligor upon the Trust Securities or the property of the Issuer Trust or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Property Trustee (irrespective of whether any Distributions on the Trust Securities shall then be due and payable and irrespective of whether the Property Trustee shall have made any demand on the Issuer Trust for the payment of any past due Distributions) shall be entitled and empowered, to the fullest extent permitted by law, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of any Distributions owing and unpaid in respect of the Trust Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Property Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(b)           to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Property Trustee and, in the event the Property Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Property Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Property Trustee.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Property Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement adjustment or compensation affecting the Trust Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Property Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 8.15          
Reports by Property Trustee.
(a)           Within 60 days after June 15 of each year commencing with June 15, 2007, the Property Trustee shall transmit to all Holders in accordance with Section 10.8, and to the Depositor, a brief report dated as of the immediately preceding June 15 with respect to:
(i)            its eligibility under Section 8.7 or, in lieu thereof, if to the best of its knowledge it has continued to be eligible under said Section, a written statement to such effect;
(ii)           a statement that the Property Trustee has complied with all of its obligations under this Trust Agreement during the twelve-month period (or, in the case of the initial report, the period since the Closing Date) ending with such June 15 or, if the Property Trustee has not complied in any material respect with such obligations, a description of such noncompliance; and
 
(iii)          any change in the property and funds in its possession as Property Trustee since the date of its last report and any action taken by the Property Trustee in the performance of its duties hereunder which it has not previously reported and which in its opinion materially affects the Trust Securities.
(b)           In addition, the Property Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Property Trustee and its actions under this Trust Agreement as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
(c)           A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Property Trustee with the Depositor.
Section 8.16          
Reports to the Property Trustee.
Each of the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such documents, reports and information as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act (if any) and the compliance certificate required by Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. The Depositor and the Administrative Trustees shall annually file with the Property Trustee a certificate specifying whether such Person is in compliance with all of the terms and covenants applicable to such Person hereunder.
Section 8.17          
Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent.
Each of the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the Property Trustee such evidence of compliance with any conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Trust Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate.
Section 8.18          
Number of Issuer Trustees.
(a)           The number of Issuer Trustees shall be four, unless the Property Trustee also acts as the Delaware Trustee, in which case the number of Issuer Trustees may be three.
(b)           If an Issuer Trustee ceases to hold office for any reason, a vacancy shall occur. The vacancy shall be filled with an Issuer Trustee appointed in accordance with Section 8.10.
(c)           The death, resignation, retirement, removal, bankruptcy, incompetence or incapacity to perform the duties of an Issuer Trustee shall not operate to annul or dissolve the Issuer Trust.
Section 8.19          
Delegation of Power.
(a)           Any Administrative Trustee may, by power of attorney consistent with applicable law, delegate to any other natural person over the age of 21 his or her power for the purpose of executing any documents contemplated in Section 2.7(a) or making any governmental filing; and
 
(b)           The Administrative Trustees shall have power to delegate from time to time to such of their number the doing of such things and the execution of such instruments either in the name of the Issuer Trust or the names of the Administrative Trustees or otherwise as the Administrative Trustees may deem expedient, to the extent such delegation is not prohibited by applicable law or contrary to the provisions of this Trust Agreement.
Section 9.1            
Dissolution Upon Expiration Date.
Unless earlier dissolved, the Issuer Trust shall automatically dissolve, and its affairs be wound up, on December 31, 2097 (the "Expiration Date"), following the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with Section 9.4.
Section 9.2            
Early Dissolution.
The first to occur of any of the following events is an "Early Dissolution Event":
(a)           the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event in respect of, or the dissolution or liquidation of, the Depositor, in its capacity as the Holder of the Common Securities, unless the Depositor shall transfer the Common Securities as provided by Section 5.10, in which case this provision shall refer instead to any such successor Holder of the Common Securities;
(b)           the written direction to the Property Trustee from the Holder of the Common Securities at any time to dissolve the Issuer Trust and to distribute the Debentures to Holders in exchange for the Capital Securities (which direction is optional and wholly within the discretion of the Holder of the Common Securities);
(c)           the redemption of all of the Capital Securities in connection with the redemption of all the Debentures; and
(d)           the entry of an order for dissolution of the Issuer Trust by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 9.3            
Dissolution.
(a)           The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Issuer Trustees, the Administrative Trustees and the Issuer Trust created and continued hereby shall terminate upon the latest to occur of the following: (a) the distribution by the Property Trustee to Holders of all amounts required to be distributed hereunder upon the liquidation of the Issuer Trust pursuant to Section 9.4, or upon the redemption of all of the Trust Securities pursuant to Section 4.2; (b) the payment of any expenses owed by the Issuer Trust; and (c) the discharge of all administrative duties of the Administrative Trustees, including the performance of any tax reporting obligations with respect to the Issuer Trust or the Holders.
(b)           As soon as practicable thereafter, and after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Issuer Trust as required by applicable law, including Section 3808 of the Delaware Statutory
 
Trust Act, the Delaware Trustee, when notified in writing of the completion of the winding up of the Issuer Trust in accordance with the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, shall terminate the Issuer Trust by filing a certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
Section 9.4            
Liquidation.
(a)           If an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of Section 9.2 occurs or upon the Expiration Date, the Issuer Trust shall be liquidated by the Property Trustee as expeditiously as the Property Trustee determines to be possible by distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Issuer Trust as provided by applicable law, to each Holder a Like Amount of Debentures, subject to Section 9.4(d). Notice of liquidation shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Liquidation Date to each Holder of Trust Securities at such Holder's address appearing in the Securities Register. All such notices of liquidation shall:
(i)            state the CUSIP Number of the Trust Securities;
(ii)           state the Liquidation Date;
(iii)          state that from and after the Liquidation Date, the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding and any Trust Securities Certificates not surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures; and
(iv)          provide such information with respect to the mechanics by which Holders may exchange Trust Securities Certificates for Debentures, or if Section 9.4(d) applies, receive a Liquidation Distribution, as the Property Trustee (after consultation with the Administrative Trustees) shall deem appropriate.
(b)           Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, in order to effect the liquidation of the Issuer Trust and distribution of the Debentures to Holders, the Property Trustee, either itself acting as exchange agent or through the appointment of a separate exchange agent, shall establish a record date for such distribution (which shall be not more than 30 days prior to the Liquidation Date) and, establish such procedures as it shall deem appropriate to effect the distribution of Debentures in exchange for the Outstanding Trust Securities Certificates.
(c)           Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, after the Liquidation Date, (i) the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding, (ii) certificates representing a Like Amount of Debentures will be issued to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates, upon surrender of such Certificates to the exchange agent for exchange, (iii) any Trust Securities Certificates not so surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures bearing accrued and unpaid interest in an amount equal to the accumulated and unpaid Distributions on such Trust Securities Certificates until such certificates are so surrendered (and until such certificates are so surrendered, no payments of interest or principal will be made to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates with respect to such Debentures) and (iv) all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive Debentures upon surrender of Trust Securities Certificates.
 
(d)           If, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 9.4, whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, distribution of the Debentures in the manner provided herein is determined by the Property Trustee not to be practical, or if an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (c) of Section 9.2 occurs, the Trust Property shall be liquidated, and the Issuer Trust shall be dissolved and its affairs wound-up, by the Property Trustee in such manner as the Property Trustee determines. In such event, on the date of the dissolution, winding-up or other termination of the Issuer Trust, Holders will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Issuer Trust available for distribution to Holders, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Issuer Trust as provided by applicable law, an amount equal to the Liquidation Amount per Trust Security plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the date of payment (such amount being the "Liquidation Distribution"). If, upon any such dissolution, winding up or termination, the Liquidation Distribution can be paid only in part because the Issuer Trust has insufficient assets available to pay in full the aggregate Liquidation Distribution, then, subject to the next succeeding sentence, the amounts payable by the Issuer Trust on the Trust Securities shall be paid on a pro rata basis (based upon Liquidation Amounts). The Holders of the Common Securities will be entitled to receive Liquidation Distributions upon any such dissolution, winding-up or termination pro rata (determined as aforesaid) with Holders of Capital Securities, except that, if a Debenture Event of Default specified in the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Capital Securities shall have a priority over the Common Securities as provided in Section 4.3.
Section 9.5            
Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of Issuer Trust.
The Issuer Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any corporation or other body, except pursuant to this Section 9.5. At the request of the Holders of the Common Securities, with the consent of the Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, and without the consent of the Issuer Trustees, the Issuer Trust may merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a trust organized as such under the laws of any state; provided, that
(i)            such successor entity either (a) expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Issuer Trust with respect to the Capital Securities, or (b) substitutes for the Capital Securities other securities having substantially the same terms as the Capital Securities (the "Successor Securities") so long as the Successor Securities have the same priority as the Capital Securities with respect to distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise, provided, however, that the Administrative Trustee first obtains the opinion of counsel of the Issuer Trust experienced in such matters, to the effect that such substitution would not vary the investment (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-4(c)) of the Issuer Trust or of the Holders,
(ii)           a trustee of such successor entity possessing the same powers and duties as the Property Trustee is appointed by the Depositary Holder of Common Securities to hold the Debentures,
 
(iii)          Successor Securities are listed or will be listed upon notification of issuance on any national securities exchange or other organization on which the Capital Securities are then listed, if any,
(iv)          such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not cause the Capital Securities (including any Successor Securities) to be downgraded by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization,
(v)           such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the holders of the Capital Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect,
(vi)          such successor entity has a purpose substantially identical to that of the Issuer Trust,
(vii)         prior to such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, the Property Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (a) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Capital Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, and (b) following such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, neither the Issuer Trust nor such successor entity will be required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act, and
(viii)        the Depositor or its permitted transferee owns all of the Common Securities of such successor entity and guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the Successor Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer Trust shall not, except with the consent of Holders of all of the Capital Securities, consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other entity or permit any other entity to consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease would cause the Issuer Trust or the successor entity to be taxable as a partnership or a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes.
Section 10.1          
Limitation of Rights of Holders.
Except as set forth in Section 9.2, the death or incapacity of any person having an interest, beneficial or otherwise, in Trust Securities shall not operate to terminate this Trust Agreement, nor entitle the legal representatives or heirs of such person or any Holder for such person, to claim an accounting, take any action or bring any proceeding in any court for a partition or winding up of the arrangements contemplated hereby, nor otherwise affect the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto or any of them.
 
Section 10.2          
Amendment.
(a)           This Trust Agreement may be amended from time to time by the Administrative Trustees and the Holders of all of the Common Securities, without the consent of any Holder of the Capital Securities, (i) to cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision herein that may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Trust Agreement, which shall not be inconsistent with the other provisions of this Trust Agreement, or (ii) to modify, eliminate or add to any provisions of this Trust Agreement to such extent as shall be necessary to ensure that the Issuer Trust will not be taxable as a partnership or a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes at all times that any Trust Securities are outstanding or to ensure that the Issuer Trust will not be required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act; provided, however, that in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), such action shall not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any Holder.
(b)           Except as provided in Section 10.2(c), any provision of this Trust Agreement may be amended by the Administrative Trustees, the Property Trustee, and the Holders of all of the Common Securities and with (i) the consent of Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities, and (ii) receipt by the Issuer Trustees of an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such amendment or the exercise of any power granted to the Trustees or the Administrative Trustees in accordance with such amendment will not affect the Trust's status as a grantor trust or cause the Issuer Trust to be taxable as a partnership or a corporation or as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes or affect the Issuer Trust's exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act.
(c)           In addition to and notwithstanding any other provision in this Trust Agreement, without the consent of each affected Holder (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this Trust Agreement may not be amended to (i) change the amount or timing of any Distribution on the Trust Securities or otherwise adversely affect the amount of any Distribution required to be made in respect of the Trust Securities as of a specified date, or (ii) restrict the right of a Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such date; and notwithstanding any other provision herein, without the unanimous consent of the Holders (such consent being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this paragraph (c) of this Section 10.2 may not be amended.
(d)           Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, no Issuer Trustee shall enter into or consent to any amendment to this Trust Agreement that would cause the Issuer Trust to fail or cease to qualify for the exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act or to be taxable as a partnership or a corporation or to be classified as other than a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes.
(e)           Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the contrary, without the consent of the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional obligation on the Depositor or the Administrative Trustees.
 
(f)            In the event that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is made, the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee shall promptly provide to the Depositor a copy of such amendment.
(g)           Neither the Property Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee shall be required to enter into any amendment to this Trust Agreement that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Trust Agreement. The Property Trustee shall be entitled to receive an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is in compliance with this Trust Agreement.
Section 10.3          
Separability.
In case any provision in this Trust Agreement or in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 10.4          
Governing Law.
This Trust Agreement and the rights and obligations of each of the Holders, the Issuer Trust, the Depositor, and the Issuer Trustees with respect to this Trust Agreement and the Trust Securities shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to its conflicts of laws provisions.
Section 10.5          
Payments Due on Non-Business Day.
If the date fixed for any payment on any Trust Security shall be a day that is not a Business Day, then such payment need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (except as otherwise provided in Sections 4.1(a) and 4.2(d)), with the same force and effect as though made on the date fixed for such payment, and no Distributions shall accumulate on such unpaid amount for the period after such date.
Section 10.6          
Successors.
This Trust Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Depositor, the Issuer Trust, and any Issuer Trustee, including any successor by operation of law. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Depositor that is permitted under Article VIII of the Indenture and pursuant to which the assignee agrees in writing to perform the Depositor's obligations hereunder, the Depositor shall not assign its obligations hereunder.
Section 10.7          
Headings.
The Article and Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Trust Agreement.
 
Section 10.8          
Reports, Notices and Demands.
Any report, notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon any Holder or the Depositor may be given or served in writing by deposit thereof, first-class postage prepaid, in the United States mail, hand delivery or facsimile transmission, in each case, addressed,
(a)           in the case of a Holder of Capital Securities, to such Holder as such Holder's name and address may appear on the Securities Register; and
(b)           in the case of the Holder of the Common Securities or the Depositor, to
State Street Corporation, Attention: Secretary One Lincoln Street Boston, MA 02111 Facsimile no.: (617) 664-4006,
or to such other address as may be specified in a written notice by the Holder of the Common Securities or the Depositor, as the case may be, to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon a Holder shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, upon hand delivery, mailing or transmission. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Depositor shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Depositor.
Any notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon the Issuer Trust, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative Trustees shall be given in writing addressed to such Person as follows:
(a)           with respect to the Property Trustee, to
U.S. Bank National Association 100 Wall Street Suite 1600 New York, NY 10005
(b)           with respect to the Delaware Trustee, to
U.S. Bank Trust National Association 300 Delaware Avenue 9th Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Attention: Corporate Trust Services
(c)           with respect to the Administrative Trustees, to them at
61 Broadway, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10006 Attention: Administrative Trustees of State Street Capital Trust IV
 
(d)           with respect to the Issuer Trust, to its principal office specified in Section 2.2, with a copy to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Issuer Trust, the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Issuer Trust, the Property Trustee or such Administrative Trustee.
Section 10.9          
Agreement Not to Petition.
Each of the Issuer Trustees and the Depositor agree for the benefit of the Holders that, until at least one year and one day after the Issuer Trust has been dissolved in accordance with Article IX, they shall not file, or join in the filing of, a petition against the Issuer Trust under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law (including the United States Bankruptcy Code) (collectively, "Bankruptcy Laws") or otherwise join in the commencement of any proceeding against the Issuer Trust under any Bankruptcy Law. If the Depositor takes action in violation of this Section 10.9, the Property Trustee agrees, for the benefit of Holders, that at the expense of the Depositor, it shall file an answer with the bankruptcy court or otherwise properly contest the filing of such petition by the Depositor against the Issuer Trust or the commencement of such action and raise the defense that the Depositor has agreed in writing not to take such action and should be stopped and precluded therefrom and such other defenses, if any, as counsel for the Issuer Trustee or the Issuer Trust may assert.
Section 10.10        
Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
(a)           This Trust Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Trust Agreement and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
(b)           The Property Trustee shall be the only Issuer Trustee that is a trustee for the purposes of the Trust Indenture Act.
(c)           If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Trust Agreement by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.  If any provision of this Trust Agreement modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provisions shall be deemed to apply to this Trust Agreement as so modified or excluded, as the case may be.
(d)           The application of the Trust Indenture Act to this Trust Agreement shall not affect the nature of the Trust Securities as equity securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer Trust.
Section 10.11        
Acceptance of Terms of Trust Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Indenture.
THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A TRUST SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST THEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A HOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL
 
CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE HOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH TRUST SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST AGREEMENT, THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE ISSUER TRUST, SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST AGREEMENT SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE ISSUER TRUST AND SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS.
Section 10.12        
Counterparts
.
This Trust Agreement may contain more than one counterpart of the signature page and this Trust Agreement may be executed by the affixing of the signature of each of the Trustees to one of such counterpart signature pages.  All of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed a single signature page.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amended and Restated Trust Agreement.
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
State Street Capital Trust IV, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Issuer Trust"), hereby certifies that State Street Corporation (the "Holder") is the registered owner of Ten Common Securities of the Issuer Trust representing undivided common beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer Trust and designated the Common Securities (liquidation amount $1,000 per Common Security) (the "Common Securities"). Except in accordance with Section 5.10 of the Trust Agreement (as defined below) the Common Securities are not transferable and any attempted transfer hereof other than in accordance therewith shall be void. The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Common Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Common Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Issuer Trust, dated as of April 30, 2007, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among State Street Corporation, as Depositor, U.S. Bank National Association, as Property Trustee, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Common Securities as set forth therein. The Issuer Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Issuer Trust at its principal place of business or registered office.
Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.
Terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Trust Agreement.
 
, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Issuer Trust has executed this certificate this ____day of April, 2007.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
This is one of the Common Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement.
Dated:
 
 
 
Exhibit B
This Capital Securities Certificate is a Book-Entry Capital Securities Certificate within the meaning of the Trust Agreement hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee of a Depositary. This Capital Securities Certificate is exchangeable for Capital Securities Certificates registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary, except in the limited circumstances described in the Trust Agreement.
Unless this Capital Security Certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York Corporation (), to State Street Capital Trust IV or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Capital Security Certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO A PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
"DTC"
NO EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OR OTHER PLAN SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), OR SECTION 4975 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") (EACH, A "PLAN"), NO ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" UNDER ERISA BY REASON OF ANY PLAN'S INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY (A "PLAN ASSET ENTITY"), AND NO PERSON INVESTING "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, MAY ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS CAPITAL SECURITIES CERTIFICATE, OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN, UNLESS SUCH PURCHASER OR HOLDER IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR PROHIBITED TRANSACTION CLASS EXEMPTION ("PTCE") 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING AND, IN THE CASE OF ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER RELYING ON ANY EXEMPTION OTHER THAN PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14, HAS COMPLIED WITH ANY REQUEST BY THE DEPOSITOR OR THE ISSUER TRUST FOR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF SUCH EXEMPTION. ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER OF THIS CAPITAL SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED BY ITS PURCHASE AND HOLDING HEREOF THAT IT EITHER (A) IS NOT A PLAN OR A PLAN ASSET ENTITY AND IS NOT PURCHASING SUCH SECURITIES ON BEHALF OF OR WITH "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, (B) IS NOT A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA SECTION 4975 OF THAT CODE, OR (C) IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING.
 
 
State Street Capital Trust IV, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Issuer Trust"), hereby certifies that Cede & Co. (the "Holder") is the registered owner of Eight Hundred Thousand Capital Securities of the Issuer Trust representing an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the Issuer Trust and designated the State Street Capital Trust IV Capital Securities (liquidation amount $1,000 per Capital Security) (the "Capital Securities"). The Capital Securities are transferable on the books and records of the Issuer Trust, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer as provided in Section 5.5 of the Trust Agreement (as defined below). The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Capital Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Capital Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Issuer Trust, dated as of April 30, 2007, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among State Street Corporation, as Depositor, U.S. Bank National Association, as Property Trustee, U.S. Bank Trust National  Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the terms of the Capital Securities as set forth therein. The Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of April __, 2007, (the "Guarantee Agreement"), by and between State Street Corporation, as Guarantor, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, to the extent provided therein. The Issuer Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Issuer Trust at its principal place of business or registered office.
Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.
 
, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Issuer Trust has executed this certificate this ____day of April, 2007.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
This is one of the Capital Securities referred to in the above mentioned Trust Agreement.
Dated:
 
the undersigned assigns and transfers this Capital Security to:
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
                                                                                                                                                          60;                                                                     
and irrevocably appoints
                                                                                                                                                       &# 160;           
agent to transfer this Capital Security Certificate on the books of the Issuer Trust. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
Date: ________________
Signature:
                                                                                                                                                          60;                                                                     
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15.

Exhibit 4.4
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
by and between
STATE STREET CORPORATION,
as GUARANTOR
AND
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as GUARANTEE TRUSTEE
relating to
STATE STREET CAPITAL TRUST IV
Dated as of April 30, 2007
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
ii
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of April 30, 2007, between STATE STREET CORPORATION, a Massachusetts corporation (the ), having its principal office at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as trustee (the ), for the benefit of the Holders (as defined herein) from time to time of the Capital Securities (as defined herein) of STATE STREET CAPITAL TRUST IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the ).
"Guarantor"
"Guarantee Trustee"
"Issuer Trust"
WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, of even date herewith (the ), among State Street Corporation, as Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees (each as named therein) and the holders from time to time of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer Trust, the Issuer Trust is issuing $800,000,000 aggregate Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of its Floating Rate Capital Securities (liquidation amount $1,000 per capital security) (the ), representing undivided preferred beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer Trust and having the terms set forth in the Trust Agreement; and
"Trust Agreement"
"Capital Securities"
WHEREAS, the Capital Securities will be issued by the Issuer Trust, and the proceeds thereof, together with the proceeds from the issuance of the Issuer Trust's Common Securities (as defined herein), will be used to purchase the Debentures (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of the Guarantor, which Debentures will be deposited with U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee under the Trust Agreement, as trust assets; and
WHEREAS, as an incentive for the Holders to purchase Capital Securities, the Guarantor desires irrevocably and unconditionally to agree, to the extent set forth herein, to pay to the Holders of the Capital Securities the Guarantee Payments (as defined herein) and to make certain other payments on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase of Capital Securities by each Holder, which purchase the Guarantor hereby acknowledges shall benefit the Guarantor, the Guarantor executes and delivers this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders from time to time.
Section 1.1.           
Definitions.
For all purposes of this Guarantee Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)           The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
(b)           All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act (as defined herein), either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
 
(c)           The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation";
(d)           All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles;
(e)           Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Guarantee Agreement; and
(f)            The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Guarantee Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Affiliate"
"
means the board of directors of the Guarantor or the Executive Committee of the board of directors of the Guarantor (or any other committee of the board of directors of the Guarantor performing similar functions) or a committee designated by the board of directors of the Guarantor (or such committee), comprised of two or more members of the board of directors of the Guarantor or officers of the Guarantor, or both.
"Board of Directors"
has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Guarantee Agreement.
"Capital Securities"
means the securities representing undivided common beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer Trust.
"Common Securities"
means (i) a default by the Guarantor in any of its payment obligations under this Guarantee Agreement or (ii) a default by the Guarantor in any other obligation hereunder that remains unremedied for 30 days.
"Event of Default"
means this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time.
"Guarantee Agreement"
means the following payments or distributions, without duplication, with respect to the Capital Securities, to the extent not paid or made by or on behalf of the Issuer Trust: (i) any accumulated and unpaid Distributions (as defined in the Trust Agreement) required to be paid on the Capital Securities, to the extent the Issuer Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; (ii) the Redemption Price (as defined in the Trust Agreement) with respect to any Capital Securities called for redemption by the Issuer Trust, to the extent the Issuer Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time; and (iii) upon a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up or termination of the Issuer Trust, unless Debentures are distributed to the Holders or all of the Capital Securities are redeemed, the lesser
"Guarantee Payments"
2
of (a) the Liquidation Distribution (as defined in the Trust Agreement) with respect to the Capital Securities, to the extent that the Issuer Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time, and (b) the amount of assets of the Issuer Trust remaining available for distribution to Holders on liquidation of the Issuer.
means U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION solely in its capacity as Guarantee Trustee and not in its individual capacity, until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter means each such Successor Guarantee Trustee.
"Guarantee Trustee"
has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement.
"Guarantor"
means any Holder (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of any Capital Securities; that in determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of Capital Securities have given any request, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, "" shall not include the Guarantor, the Guarantee Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Guarantor or the Guarantee Trustee.
"Holder"
provided, however,
Holder
means the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 15, 1996, as amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, dated April 30, 2007.
"Indenture"
has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee Agreement.
"Issuer Trust"
has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a).
"List of Holders"
means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, Capital Securities representing more than 50% of the aggregate Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of all Capital Securities then Outstanding (as defined in the Trust Agreement).
"Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities"
means, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by the Chairman or a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of such Person or the President or a Vice President of such Person, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary (or Clerk) or an Assistant Secretary (or Assistant Clerk) of such Person. Any Officers' Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Guarantee Agreement shall include:
"Officers' Certificate"
(a)           a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto;
(b)           a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by such officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate;
3
(c)           a statement that such officer has made such examination or investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d)           a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, business trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature.
"Person"
means, with respect to the Guarantee Trustee, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the Corporate Trust Department of the Guarantee Trustee and also means, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
"Responsible Officer"
means a successor Guarantee Trustee possessing the qualifications to act as Guarantee Trustee under Section 4.1.
"Successor Guarantee Trustee"
means the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Issuer Trust referred to in the recitals to this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended or supplemented from time to time.
"Trust Agreement"
means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Guarantee Agreement was executed; , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
"Trust Indenture Act"
provided, however
"Trust Indenture Act"
when used with respect to the Guarantor, means any duly appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
"Vice President,"
Section 2.1.           
Trust Indenture Act; Application.
(a)           This Guarantee Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Guarantee Agreement and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
(b)           If and to the extent any provision of this Guarantee Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.
4
Section 2.2.           
List of Holders.
(a)           The Guarantor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee (a) semiannually, on or before May 31 and November 30 of each year, a list, in such form as the Guarantee Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders (a "") as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the delivery thereof, and (b) at such other times as the Guarantee Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Guarantor of any such request, a List of Holders as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished, in each case to the extent such information is in the possession or control of the Guarantor and has not otherwise been received by the Guarantee Trustee in its capacity as such. The Guarantee Trustee may destroy any List of Holders previously given to it on receipt of a new List of Holders.
List of Holders
(b)           The Guarantee Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Section 311(a), Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 2.3.           
Reports by the Guarantee Trustee.
Within 60 days after June 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2007, the Guarantee Trustee shall provide to the Holders such reports as are required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, if any, in the form and in the manner provided by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act. If this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee shall also comply with the requirements of Section 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 2.4.           
Periodic Reports to the Guarantee Trustee.
The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders such documents, reports and information, if any, as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and the compliance certificate required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, that such documents, reports and information shall be required to be provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission only if this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
provided
Section 2.5.           
Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent.
The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee such evidence of compliance with such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Guarantee Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be given by an officer of the Guarantor pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) may be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate.
Section 2.6.           
Events of Default; Waiver.
The Holders of at least a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities may, by vote, on behalf of the Holders of all the Capital Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall
5
cease to exist, and any default or Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Guarantee Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 2.7.           
Event of Default; Notice.
(a)           The Guarantee Trustee shall, within 90 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders, notice of any such Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, unless such Event of Default has been cured before the giving of such notice, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of a Guarantee Payment, the Guarantee Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the Board of Directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Guarantee Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders.
provided
(b)           The Guarantee Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Guarantee Trustee shall have received written notice, or a Responsible Officer charged with the administration of this Guarantee Agreement shall have obtained written notice, of such Event of Default.
Section 2.8.           
Conflicting Interests.
The Trust Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically described in this Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 3.1.           
Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee.
(a)           This Guarantee Agreement shall be held by the Guarantee Trustee for the benefit of the Holders, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not transfer this Guarantee Agreement to any Person except to a Successor Guarantee Trustee on acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment to act as Guarantee Trustee hereunder. The right, title and interest of the Guarantee Trustee, as such, hereunder shall automatically vest in any Successor Guarantee Trustee, upon acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment hereunder, and such vesting and cessation of title shall be effective whether or not conveyancing documents have been executed and delivered pursuant to the appointment of such Successor Guarantee Trustee.
(b)           If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantee Trustee shall enforce this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders.
(c)           The Guarantee Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and no implied covenants shall be read into this Guarantee Agreement against the
6
Guarantee Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 2.6), the Guarantee Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(d)           No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Guarantee Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(i)            Prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred:
(A)          the duties and obligations of the Guarantee Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1); and
(B)           in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Guarantee Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement.
(ii)           The Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantee Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Guarantee Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts upon which such judgment was made.
(iii)          The Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of not less than a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement.
(iv)          Subject to Section 3.1(b), no provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall require the Guarantee Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Guarantee Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Guarantee Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
7
Section 3.2.           
Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee.
(a)           Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1:
(i)            The Guarantee Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or presented by the proper party or parties.
(ii)           Any direction or act of the Guarantor contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate unless otherwise prescribed herein.
(iii)          Whenever, in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established before taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (unless other evidence is herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate which, upon receipt of such request from the Guarantee Trustee, shall be promptly delivered by the Guarantor.
(iv)          The Guarantee Trustee may consult with legal counsel, and the written advice or opinion of such legal counsel with respect to legal matters shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. Such legal counsel may be legal counsel to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates and may be one of its employees. The Guarantee Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Guarantee Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(v)           The Guarantee Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement at the request or direction of any Holder unless such Holder shall have provided to the Guarantee Trustee such adequate security and indemnity as would satisfy a reasonable person in the position of the Guarantee Trustee against the costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in complying with such request or direction, including such reasonable advances as may be requested by the Guarantee Trustee; that nothing contained in this Section 3.2(a)(v) shall be taken to relieve the Guarantee Trustee, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, of its obligation to exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement.
provided
(vi)          The Guarantee Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Guarantee Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit.
(vii)         The Guarantee Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, and the
8
Guarantee Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder.
(viii)        Whenever in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (A) may request instructions from the Holders, (B) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received, and (C) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions.
(b)           No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on the Guarantee Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which the Guarantee Trustee shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to perform any such act or acts or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to the Guarantee Trustee shall be construed to be a duty to act in accordance with such power and authority.
Section 3.3.           
Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.
The Guarantor agrees:
(a)           to pay to the Guarantee Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as may be agreed by the Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee from time to time (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(b)           except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Guarantee Trustee upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Guarantee Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Guarantee Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
(c)           to indemnify the Guarantee Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Guarantee Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
The Guarantee Trustee will not claim or exact any lien or charge on any Guarantee Payments as a result of any amount due to it under this Guarantee Agreement.
The provisions of this Section 3.3 shall survive the termination of this Guarantee Agreement or the resignation or removal of the Guarantee Trustee.
9
 
Section 4.1.            .
Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility
(a)           There shall at all times be a Guarantee Trustee which shall:
(i)            not be an Affiliate of the Guarantor; and
(ii)           be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and shall be a corporation meeting the requirements of Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 4.1 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.
(b)           If at any time the Guarantee Trustee shall cease to be eligible to so act under Section 4.1(a), the Guarantee Trustee shall immediately resign in the manner and with the effect set out in Section 4.2.
(c)           If the Guarantee Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee and Guarantor shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 4.2.            .
Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee
(a)           Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may be appointed or removed at any time by the action of the Holders of a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities delivered to the Guarantee Trustee and the Guarantor (i) for cause or (ii) if a Debenture Event of Default (as defined in the Trust Agreement) shall have occurred and be continuing at any time.
(b)           Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may resign from office (without need for prior or subsequent accounting) by giving written notice thereof to the Holders and the Guarantor and by appointing a successor Guarantee Trustee. The Guarantee Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three Persons meeting the requirements of Section 4.1(a) their expenses and charges to serve as the Guarantee Trustee, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest expenses and charges.
(c)           The Guarantee Trustee appointed hereunder shall hold office until a Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and shall have accepted such appointment. No removal or resignation of a Guarantee Trustee shall be effective until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment by written instrument executed by such Successor Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor and, in the case of any resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee.
10
 
(d)           If no Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and accepted appointment as provided in this Section 4.2 within 60 days after delivery to the Holders and the Guarantor of a notice of resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Guarantor, any court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a Successor Guarantee Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after prescribing such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee.
(e)           If a resigning Guarantee Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or if a Guarantee Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as Guarantee Trustee and a replacement shall not be appointed prior to such resignation or removal, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Guarantee Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Capital Securities, by the action of the Holders of record of not less than 25% in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities then Outstanding delivered to such Guarantee Trustee, may appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee or Trustees. If no successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Capital Securities and accepted appointment, any Holder, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Guarantee Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Guarantee Trustee.
Section 5.1.            .
Guarantee
The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to pay in full to the Holders the Guarantee Payments (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by or on behalf of the Issuer Trust), as and when due, regardless of any defense, right of set-off or counterclaim that the Issuer Trust may have or assert, except the defense of payment. The Guarantor's obligation to make a Guarantee Payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts by the Guarantor to the Holders or by causing the Issuer Trust to pay such amounts to the Holders.
Section 5.2.            .
Waiver of Notice and Demand
The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guarantee Agreement and of any liability to which it applies or may apply, presentment, demand for payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the Guarantee Trustee, the Issuer Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Guarantor, protest, notice of nonpayment, notice of dishonor, notice of redemption and all other notices and demands.
Section 5.3.            .
Obligations Not Affected
The obligations, covenants, agreements and duties of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall in no way be affected or impaired by reason of the happening from time to time of any of the following:
(a)           the release or waiver, by operation of law or otherwise, of the performance or observance by the Issuer Trust of any express or implied agreement, covenant, term or condition relating to the Capital Securities to be performed or observed by the Issuer Trust;
11
 
(b)           the extension of time for the payment by the Issuer Trust of all or any portion of the Distributions (other than an extension of time for payment of Distributions that results from the extension of any interest payment period on the Debentures as provided in the Indenture), Redemption Price, Liquidation Distribution or any other sums payable under the terms of the Capital Securities or the extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under, arising out of, or in connection with, the Capital Securities;
(c)           any failure, omission, delay or lack of diligence on the part of the Holders to enforce, assert or exercise any right, privilege, power or remedy conferred on the Holders pursuant to the terms of the Capital Securities, or any action on the part of the Issuer Trust granting indulgence or extension of any kind;
(d)           the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment of debt of, or other similar proceedings affecting, the Issuer Trust or any of the assets of the Issuer Trust;
(e)           any invalidity of, or defect or deficiency in, the Capital Securities;
(f)            the settlement or compromise of any obligation guaranteed hereby or hereby incurred; or
(g)           any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor (other than payment of the underlying obligation), it being the intent of this Section 5.3 that the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances.
There shall be no obligation of the Holders to give notice to, or obtain the consent of, the Guarantor with respect to the happening of any of the foregoing.
Section 5.4.            .
Rights of Holders
The Guarantor expressly acknowledges that: (i) this Guarantee Agreement will be deposited with the Guarantee Trustee to be held for the benefit of the Holders; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee has the right to enforce this Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Holders; (iii) the Holders of a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of this Guarantee Agreement or the exercise of any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) any Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Guarantor to enforce the Guarantee Trustee's rights and the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee Agreement without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee, the Issuer Trust or any other Person or entity.
Section 5.5.            .
Guarantee of Payment
This Guarantee Agreement creates a guarantee of payment and not of collection. This Guarantee Agreement will not be discharged except by payment of the Guarantee Payments in
12
 
full (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by the Issuer Trust) or upon the distribution of Debentures to Holders as provided in the Trust Agreement.
Section 5.6.            .
Subrogation
The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights (if any) of the Holders against the Issuer Trust in respect of any amounts paid to the Holders by the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement; that the Guarantor shall not (except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law) be entitled to enforce or exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation or any indemnity, reimbursement or other agreement, in all cases as a result of payment under this Guarantee Agreement, if, at the time of any such payment, any amounts are due and unpaid under this Guarantee Agreement. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence, the Guarantor agrees to hold such amount in trust for the Holders and to pay over such amount to the Holders.
provided, however,
Section 5.7.            .
Independent Obligations
The Guarantor acknowledges that its obligations hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Issuer Trust with respect to the Capital Securities and that the Guarantor shall be liable as principal and as debtor hereunder to make Guarantee Payments pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement notwithstanding the occurrence of any event referred to in subsections (a) through (g), inclusive, of Section 5.3 hereof.
Section 6.1.            .
Subordination
The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement will constitute unsecured obligations of the Guarantor and will rank subordinate and junior in right of payment to all Senior Debt (as defined in the Indenture) of the Guarantor to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Indenture with respect to the Debentures, and the provisions of Article XIII of the Indenture will apply, , to the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder. The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder do not constitute Senior Debt (as defined in the Indenture) of the Guarantor.
mutatis mutandis
Section 6.2.            .
Pari Passu Guarantees
The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall rank with the obligations of the Guarantor under (i) any similar guarantee agreements issued by the Guarantor on behalf of the holders of preferred or capital securities issued by any Issuer Trust (as defined in the Indenture), (ii) the Indenture and the Securities (as defined therein) issued thereunder; (iii) any similar expense agreements entered into by the Guarantor in connection with the offering of Capital Securities (as defined in the Indenture) by any Issuer Trust, and (iv) any other security, guarantee or other agreement or obligation that is expressly stated to rank with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement or with any obligation that ranks with the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement.
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
13
Section 7.1.            .
Termination
This Guarantee Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon (i) full payment of the Redemption Price (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of all Capital Securities, (ii) the distribution of Debentures to the Holders in exchange for all of the Capital Securities or (iii) full payment of the amounts payable in accordance with Article IX of the Trust Agreement upon liquidation of the Issuer Trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guarantee Agreement will continue to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any Holder is required to repay any sums paid with respect to Capital Securities or this Guarantee Agreement.
Section 8.1.            .
Successors and Assigns
All guarantees and agreements contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall bind the successors, assigns, receivers, trustees and representatives of the Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders of the Capital Securities then outstanding. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Guarantor that is permitted under Article VIII of the Indenture and pursuant to which the successor or assignee agrees in writing to perform the Guarantor's obligations hereunder, the Guarantor shall not assign its obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment other than in accordance with this provision shall be void.
Section 8.2.            .
Amendments
Except with respect to any changes that do not adversely affect the rights of the Holders in any material respect (in which case no consent of the Holders will be required), this Guarantee Agreement may only be amended with the prior approval of the Holders of not less than a Majority in Liquidation Amount of the Capital Securities. The provisions of Article VI of the Trust Agreement concerning meetings of the Holders shall apply to the giving of such approval.
Section 8.3.            .
Notices
Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing, duly signed by the party giving such notice, and delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class mail as follows:
(a)           if given to the Guarantor, to the address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or telecopy number as the Guarantor may give notice to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders:
State Street Corporation One Lincoln Street Boston, Massachusetts 02111
14
Attention: Secretary Telecopy: 617-664-4006
(b)           if given to the Guarantee Trustee, at the Issuer Trust's address or telecopy number set forth below or such other address or telecopy number as the Guarantee Trustee may give notice to the Guarantor and Holders:
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION One Federal Street 3rd Floor Boston, Massachusetts 02110 Attention: Corporate Trust Services
with a copy to:
State Street Capital Trust IV c/o State Street Bank and Trust Company, N.A. 61 Broadway, 15th Floor New York, New York  10006
(c)           if given to any Holder, at the address set forth on the books and records of the Issuer Trust.
All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given when received in person, telecopied with receipt confirmed, or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, except that if a notice or other document is refused delivery or cannot be delivered because of a changed address of which no notice was given, such notice or other document shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date of such refusal or inability to deliver.
Section 8.4.            .
Benefit
This Guarantee Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Holders and is not separately transferable from the Capital Securities.
Section 8.5.            .
Governing Law
THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 8.6.            .
Counterparts
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
15
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
STATE STREET CORPORATION, as Guarantor
By:
                                                                         
     Name:
     Title:
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
by:
                                                                         
     Name:
     Title:
 
16

Exhibit 4.5
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a limited-purpose trust company organized under the New York Banking Law ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
State Street Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Four Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($450,000,000) on April 30, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from April 30, 2007 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 30 and October 30 in each year, commencing October 30, 2007 at the rate of 5.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be April 15 or October 15, whether or not a Business Day, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the offices or agencies of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Boston, Massachusetts (the "Place of Payment"), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided that for so long as this Security is a Global Security, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on
this Security will be made by the Paying Agent by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a separate account of the Depositary or its nominee at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, provided that, in the case of payments made at maturity of such Global Security, the Global Security is presented to the Paying Agent in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in accordance with its normal procedures.
Interest on this Security will be paid on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that an Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, the Company will pay interest on the next day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, and without any interest or other payment with respect to the delay. If the date of maturity for this Security is not a Business Day, payment of principal and interest on this Security will be made on the following day that is a Business Day and no interest will accrue for the period from and after such date of maturity. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York and Boston, Massachusetts are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in or more series under an Indenture, dated as of August 2, 1993 (herein called the "Indenture," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The First National Bank of Boston, as initial trustee, as succeeded by Fleet National Bank, as succeeded by U.S. Bank National Association, as successor trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee, and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $450,000,000.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of 66 2/3% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee
2
written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series as the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings as Trustee in respect of such Event of Default and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity.  The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof of his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, or authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee and transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee not any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication heron has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
3
In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: April         , 2007
 
This is on of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
4

Exhibit 4.6
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a limited-purpose trust company organized under the New York Banking Law ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
State Street Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Two Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($250,000,000) on April 30, 2012 and to pay interest thereon from April 30, 2007 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly in arrears on April 30, July 30, October 30 and December 30 in each year, commencing July 30, 2007 at the rate of Three-Month LIBOR plus 0.10% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whole name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be April 15, July 15, October 15 or December 15, whether or not a Business Day, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
"Interest Period" means the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date and ending on and including the next day preceding that Interest Payment Date.
"Three-Month LIBOR" means, with respect to any Interest Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day
of that Interest Period that appears on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Interest Period. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Interest Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Interest Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Interest Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Interest Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Interest Period, as applicable, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Interest Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Interest Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Interest Period. The establishment of Three-Month LIBOR for each Interest Period by the Calculation Agent shall (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding.
"Calculation Agent" means U.S. Bank National Association, or any other firm appointed by the Company, acting as calculation agent.
"LIBOR Determination Date" means the second London banking day immediately preceding the first day of the Interest Period.
"Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page" means the display designated on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or such other page as may replace Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page on the service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).
The amount of interest for each day this Security is outstanding, or the "Daily Interest Amount," will be calculated by dividing the interest rate in effect for that day by 360 and multiplying the result by the principal amount of this Security. The amount of interest to be paid on this Security for each Interest Period will be calculated by adding the Daily Interest Amounts for each day in the Interest Period.
If any Interest Payment Date would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, other than the Interest Payment Date that is also the date of maturity for this Security, that Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the following day that is a Business Day, except that if such next Business Day is in a different month, then that Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day. If the date of maturity for this Security is not a Business Day, payment of principal and interest on this Security will be made on the following day that is a Business Day and no interest will accrue for the period from and after such date of maturity. "Business Day" means any London Business Day other than any Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York and Boston, Massachusetts are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed. A "London Business Day" is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
2
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the offices or agencies of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Boston, Massachusetts (the "Place of Payment"), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided that for so long as this Security is a Global Security, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on this Security will be made by the Paying Agent by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a separate account of the Depositary or its nominee at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, provided that, in the case of payments made at maturity of such Global Security, the Global Security is presented to the Paying Agent in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment sin accordance with its normal procedures.
This Security may be subject to redemption at the option of the Holder hereof in accordance with the terms hereof on the Holder's Optional Repayment Date specified on the face hereof.  The redemption option may be exercised on the Holder's Optional Prepayment Date for the entire principal amount hereof or less than the entire principal amount hereof, so long as the principal amount to be redeemed is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 and any remaining principal amount hereof is at least $250,000, at the option of the Holder hereof at 100% of such principal amount to be redeemed, together with accrued and unpaid interest hereon payable to the date of repayment.  For this Security to be repaid in whole or in part at the option of the Holder hereof on the Holder's Optional Repayment Date, this Security must be surrendered, with the form below entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed, to the Paying Agent at the office of the Paying Agent in the Place of Payment, or at such other address which the Company shall from time to time notify the holders of the Securities, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to such Holders' Optional Repayment Date.  Exercise of such repayment option by the Holder hereof shall be irrevocable.  Each Person owning a beneficial interest in this Security must rely on the procedures of DTC, and if such person is not an Agent Member of DTC, on the procedures of the Agent Member through which such Person owns its interest, to exercise it rights of repayment.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in or more series under an Indenture, dated as of August 2, 1993 (herein called the "Indenture," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The First National Bank of Boston, as initial trustee, as succeeded by Fleet National Bank, as succeeded by U.S. Bank National Association, as successor trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee, and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of 66 2/3% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified
3
percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series as the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings as Trustee in respect of such Event of Default and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity.  The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof of his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, or authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee and transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee not any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
4
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication heron has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
5
In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: April ____, 2007
 
Attest:
___________________________
This is on of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
6

 
Exhibit 5.1
April 30, 2007
State Street Corporation One Lincoln Street Boston, MA 02110
Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-132606), initially filed on March 21, 2006 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and declared effective on March 21, 2006.
Re:  
                     
Commission
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the above-referenced registration statement (the ""), the base prospectus dated March 21, 2006 (the "") and the prospectus supplement dated April 23, 2007 (the "" and together with the Base Prospectus, the "") filed with the Commission by State Street Corporation (the "") and State Street Capital Trust IV (the "") on April 25, 2007 pursuant to Rule 424 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). The Prospectus relates to the offering by the Company of $800,010,000 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (the "") and an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee (the "") of certain payments and obligations of the Trust, a Delaware statutory trust.
Registration Statement
Base Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
Company
Trust
Act
Junior Subordinated Debentures
Guarantee
The Junior Subordinated Debentures will be issued under the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of December 15, 1996 between the Company and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago, N.A.))), as trustee, as amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, dated as of April 30, 2007 (as so amended and supplemented, the "").  The Guarantee will be issued under the Guarantee Agreement dated as of April 30, 2007 (the "") between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Guarantee Trustee.
Junior Subordinated Indenture
Guarantee Agreement
We have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents and records and have made such investigation of fact and such examination of law as we have deemed appropriate in order to enable us to render the opinion set forth herein.  In conducting such investigation, we have relied, without independent verification, upon certificates of officers of the Company, public officials and other appropriate persons.
 
The opinions expressed below are limited to the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law, including the applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and the reported cases interpreting those laws, and the federal laws of the United States of America.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that:
The Junior Subordinated Debentures have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when (a) the Junior Subordinated Indenture has been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (b) the Junior Subordinated Debentures have been duly executed, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the Junior Subordinated Indenture against payment of the agreed consideration therefor, the Junior Subordinated Debentures will constitute the valid and binding obligations of the Company, subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws of general application affecting the rights and remedies of creditors, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether applied in proceedings in equity or at law.
1.
                                      
The Guarantee has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when the Guarantee Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto, it will constitute the valid and binding obligation of the Company, subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws of general application affecting the rights and remedies of creditors, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether applied in proceedings in equity or at law.
2.
                                      
The opinions expressed herein do not purport to cover, and we express no opinion with respect to, the applicability of Section 548 of the federal Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provision of state law.  The opinions expressed herein are also subject to the qualification that the enforceability of provisions providing for indemnification or contribution may be limited by public policy considerations.
We hereby consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein. Our consent shall not be deemed an admission that we are experts whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Ropes & Gray LLP
Ropes & Gray LLP
2

Exhibit 5.2
State Street Capital Trust IV c/o State Street Bank and Trust Company, N.A. Two World Financial Center 225 Liberty Street New York, New York 10281
State Street Corporation 225 Franklin Street Boston, Massachusetts 02110
Re:
                                  
State Street Capital Trust IV
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special Delaware counsel for State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), and State Street Capital Trust IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), in connection with the matters set forth herein.  At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you.
For purposes of giving the opinions hereinafter set forth, our examination of documents has been limited to the examination of originals or copies of the following:
A certified copy of the Certificate of Trust of the Trust, as filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of State") on March 31, 2000, as amended by the Amendment to Certificate of Trust of the Trust, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on April 25, 2007 (collectively, the "Certificate of Trust");
(a)
                                 
The Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated March 31, 2000, among the Company, as depositor, and the trustees named therein;
(b)
                                
The Removal and Appointment of Trustees, dated as of April 23, 2007, executed by the Company, as depositor;
(c)
                                 
The Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Trust, dated as of April 30, 2007 (including Exhibits A and B thereto) (the "Declaration of Trust"), among the Company, the trustees of the Trust named therein, and
(d)
                                
 
the several holders, from time to time, of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust;
The Prospectus, dated March 21, 2006 (the "Original Prospectus"), as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, dated April 23, 2007 (the "Supplement" and together with the Original Prospectus, the "Prospectus"), relating to the Floating Rate Capital Securities, of the Trust representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust (each, a "Capital Security" and collectively, the "Capital Securities"); and
(e)
                                 
A Certificate of Good Standing for the Trust, dated April 30, 2007.
(f)
                                   
Initially capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined are used as defined in the Declaration of Trust, except that reference herein to any document shall mean such document as in effect on the date hereof.
For purposes of this opinion, we have not reviewed any documents other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (f) above.  In particular, we have not reviewed any document (other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (f) above) that is referred to in or incorporated by reference into the documents reviewed by us.  We have assumed that there exists no provision in any document that we have not reviewed that is inconsistent with the opinions stated herein.  We have conducted no independent factual investigation of our own but rather have relied solely upon the foregoing documents, the statements and information set forth therein and the additional matters recited or assumed herein, all of which we have assumed to be true, complete and accurate in all material respects.
With respect to all documents examined by us, we have assumed (i) the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as authentic originals, (ii) the conformity with the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies or forms, and (iii) the genuineness of all signatures.
For purposes of this opinion, we have assumed (i) that the Declaration of Trust constitutes the entire agreement among the parties thereto with respect to the subject matter thereof, including with respect to the creation, operation and termination of the Trust and has not been amended and that the Certificate of Trust is in full force and effect and will not be amended, (ii) except to the extent provided in paragraph 1 below, the due organization or due formation, as the case may be, and valid existence in good standing of each party to the documents examined by us under the laws of the jurisdiction governing its organization or formation, (iii) the legal capacity of natural persons who are parties to the documents examined by us, (iv) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, such documents, (v) the due authorization, execution and delivery by all parties thereto of all documents examined by us, (vi) the receipt by each Person to whom a Capital Security is to be issued by the Trust (collectively, the "Capital Security Holders") of a Capital Security Certificate for such Capital Security and
2
 
the payment for such Capital Security acquired by it, in accordance with the Declaration of Trust and the Registration Statement, (vii) that the Capital Securities are authenticated, issued and sold to the Capital Security Holders in accordance with the Declaration of Trust and the Prospectus and (viii) that the Delaware Trustee satisfies the requirements of  3807 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, 12  3801 et seq. (the "Act").  We have not participated in the preparation of the Prospectus and assume no responsibility for its contents.
Del. C.
This opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the securities laws of the State of Delaware), and we have not considered and express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction, including federal laws and rules and regulations relating thereto.  Our opinions are rendered only with respect to Delaware laws and rules, regulations and orders thereunder which are currently in effect.
Based upon the foregoing, and upon our examination of such questions of law and statutes of the State of Delaware as we have considered necessary or appropriate, and subject to the assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
1.             The Trust has been duly created and is validly existing in good standing as a statutory trust under the Act.
2.             The Capital Securities of the Trust have been duly authorized by the Declaration of Trusts and, when executed and delivered to and paid for by the purchasers thereof in accordance with the Declaration of Trusts and the Prospectus, will be duly and validly issued and, subject to the qualifications set forth in paragraph 3 below, fully paid and non-assessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust.
3.             The Capital Security Holders, as beneficial owners of the Trust, will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  We note that the Preferred Security Holders may be obligated to make payments as set forth in the Declaration of Trust.
We consent to the filing of this opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.  We hereby consent to the use of our name under the heading "Validity  of Securities" in the Prospectus and any supplements thereto.  In giving the foregoing consents, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.
 
3

 
Exhibit 5.3
April 30, 2007
State Street Corporation One Lincoln Street Boston, MA 02110
Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-132606), initially filed on March 21, 2006 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and declared effective on March 21, 2006.
Re:  
                     
Commission
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the above-referenced registration statement (the ""), the base prospectus dated March 21, 2006 (the "") and the prospectus supplement dated April 25, 2007 (the "" and together with the Base Prospectus, the "") filed with the Commission by State Street Corporation (the "") on April 26, 2007 pursuant to Rule 424 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). The Prospectus relates to the offering by the Company of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.375% Fixed Rate Notes due April 30, 2017 (the "") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2012 (together with the Fixed Rate Notes, the ""), each issued pursuant to the Senior Indenture, dated as of August 2, 1993, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor senior trustee (the ""), which Notes are covered by the Registration Statement. We understand that the Notes are to be offered and sold in the manner described in the Prospectus.
Registration Statement
Base Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
Company
Act
Fixed Rate Notes
Notes
Senior Indenture
We have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents and records and have made such investigation of fact and such examination of law as we have deemed appropriate in order to enable us to render the opinion set forth herein.  In conducting such investigation, we have relied, without independent verification, upon certificates of officers of the Company, public officials and other appropriate persons.
The opinions expressed below are limited to The laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law, including the applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and the reported cases interpreting those laws, and the federal laws of the United States of America.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when (a) the Senior Indenture has been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (b) the Notes have been duly executed, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the Senior Indenture against payment of the agreed consideration therefor, the Notes will constitute the valid and binding
 
obligations of the Company, subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws of general application affecting the rights and remedies of creditors, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether applied in proceedings in equity or at law.
The opinions expressed herein do not purport to cover, and we express no opinion with respect to, the applicability of Section 548 of the federal Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provision of state law.  The opinions expressed herein are also subject to the qualification that the enforceability of provisions providing for indemnification or contribution may be limited by public policy considerations.
We hereby consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein.  Our consent shall not be deemed an admission that we are experts whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Ropes & Gray LLP
Ropes & Gray LLP
2

 
Exhibit 8.1
April 30, 2007       
State Street Corporation One Lincoln Street Boston, Massachusetts  02111
Ladies and Gentlemen:
As special tax counsel for State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), and for State Street Capital Trust IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust") in connection with the issuance of Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures by the Company and the issuance of Floating Rate Capital Securities by the Trust, as described in the prospectus supplement dated April 23, 2007 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus dated March 21, 2006, we hereby confirm to the Company our opinion as set forth under the heading "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Prospectus Supplement, subject to the limitations set forth therein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Prospectus Supplement and to the reference to us under the heading "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Prospectus Supplement.  In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Ropes & Gray LLP
Ropes & Gray LLP

Exhibit 99.1
, dated as of April 30, 2007 (this ""), by State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
Replacement Capital Covenant
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
.    On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing $800,010,000 aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (the "") to State Street Capital Trust IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the "").
A
Debentures
Trust
.    On the date hereof, the Trust is issuing $800,000,0000 aggregate liquidation amount of its Floating Rate Capital Securities (the "" and, together with the Debentures, the ""), and $10,000 of its Common Securities.
B
Capital Securities
Securities
.    This Replacement Capital Covenant is the "" referred to in the Prospectus Supplement, dated April 23, 2007 (the ""), relating to, among other securities, the Securities.
C
Replacement Capital Covenant
Prospectus Supplement
.    The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
D
    The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
E.
the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
N
, T
OW
,
HEREFORE
SECTION 1.. Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.
    Definitions
SECTION 2.. The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not repay, redeem or purchase, nor shall any Subsidiary of the Corporation (including the Trust) purchase, any of the Securities prior to the Termination Date except to the extent that (a) in the case of a redemption or purchase prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date, the Corporation has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve's capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and (b) the aggregate principal amount repaid, or the applicable redemption or purchase price, does not exceed the sum of the following amounts:
    Limitations on Repayment, Redemption and Purchase of Securities
(i)    the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of (A) net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries from the sale of Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock issued pursuant to the Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan or employee benefit plans), (B) the Market Value of any Common Stock that the Corporation or its Subsidiaries have delivered as consideration for property or assets in an arm's-length transaction and (C) the Market Value of any Common Stock that the Corporation and its Subsidiaries have issued in connection with the conversion or exchange of any convertible or exchangeable securities, other than securities for which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries has received equity credit from any NRSRO, in each case within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period);
plus
 
(ii)    100% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, or REIT Preferred Securities;
plus
(iii)    100% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities;
in each case to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries; that the provisions of this Section 2 shall not apply to (i) the purchase of the Securities or any portion thereof in connection with the distribution thereof or (ii) purchases of the Securities or any portion thereof by Subsidiaries of the Corporation in connection with market-making or other secondary-market activities; and , , that the provisions of this Section 2 shall not apply to any distribution of the Debentures to holders of the Capital Securities upon a dissolution of the Trust. For purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant, the term "" includes the defeasance by the Corporation of the Debentures as well as the satisfaction and discharge of its obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Debentures.
provided, however,
provided
further
repay
SECTION 3.. (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.
    Covered Debt
(b)    On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:
(i)    the Corporation shall identify each series of its and its Depository Institution Subsidiaries' then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
(ii)    if only one series of the Corporation's then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
(iii)    if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date;
(iv)    if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, and its Largest Depository Institution Subsidiary has only one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
(v)    if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, but its Largest Depository Institution Subsidiary has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date;
(vi)    the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and
(vii)    in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as provided for in Section 3(c), give a notice and file with the Commission a current report on Form 8-K
including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant as an exhibit within the time frame provided for in such section.
(c). In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital D, the Corporation covenants that (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, it shall (x) give notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (y) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission; (iii) if a series of the Corporation's or one of its Depository Institution Subsidiary's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (1) becomes Covered Debt or (2) ceases to be Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give notice of such occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation's next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable; (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation will (A) post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(c) and (B) cause a notice of the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be posted on the Bloomberg screen for the Covered Debt or any successor Bloomberg screen and each similar third-party vendor's screen the Corporation reasonably believes is appropriate (each an "Investor Screen") and cause a hyperlink to the execution copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each series of Covered Debt, in each case to the extent permitted by Bloomberg or such similar third-party vendor, as the case may be; and (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with an executed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
    Notice
SECTION 4.. (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the "") to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (ii) the date on which neither the Corporation nor any of its Depository Institution Subsidiaries has any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term), (iii) June 1, 2047 or, if the Corporation extends the Scheduled Maturity Date to June 15, 2047 or if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077 pursuant to Section 1.4 of the Supplemental Indenture, June 1, 2057, and (iv) the occurrence of an event of default that results in the acceleration of the Debentures. From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect.
    Termination, Amendment and Waiver
Termination Date
(b)    This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as a Replacement Capital Security, if after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as a Replacement Capital Security would result in a reduction in the Corporation's earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, (ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in
provided
the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, or (iii) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on, or eliminate certain of, the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities (other than the securities covered by clause (i) above), and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect.
(c)    For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.
SECTION 5.    .
Miscellaneous
(a) 
This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
(b)    This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person acquires, holds or sells Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person's rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).
(c)  The Corporation acknowledges and agrees that each Covered Debtholder is an intended third party beneficiary and is entitled to enforce this Replacement Capital Covenant directly against the Corporation, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the documentation governing the Covered Debt. Furthermore, if at any time the Covered Debt is held by a trust, a holder of the capital securities of such trust may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Corporation for the enforcement of this Replacement Capital Covenant, and such capital securities shall be deemed to be "Covered Debt" so long as the Covered Debt held by the trust remains the Covered Debt.
(d) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:
provided
State Street Corporation One Lincoln Street Boston, Massachusetts 02111 Attention: Secretary Facsimile No: 617-664-8209
, the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
I
W
N
W
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
Schedule I
"" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the related transaction documents permitting the Corporation, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, to defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to ten years and requiring the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:
Alternative Payment Mechanism
(a)    define "eligible proceeds" to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such APM Qualifying Securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;
(b)    permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds;
(c)    if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year, require the Corporation not to redeem or repurchase any of its securities ranking junior to or with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid (a "");
pari passu
Repurchase Restriction
(d)    notwithstanding clause (b) of this definition, if the Federal Reserve disapproves the issuer's sale of APM Qualifying Securities or the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions from any source or, if the Federal Reserve does not disapprove the Corporation's issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds for other purposes and to continue to defer Distributions, without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents;
(e)    may include a provision that, for purposes of paying deferred interest, limits the ability of the Corporation to sell shares of Common Stock above a Maximum Share Number;
(f)    limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism either (A) during the first five years of any deferral period or (B) before an anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period that is not earlier than the fifth such anniversary and not later than the ninth such anniversary (as designated in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of such deferral period, either:
(i)    to an aggregate amount of such securities, the net proceeds from the issuance of which is equal to 2% of the product of the average of the current Market Value of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive trading days ending on the fourth trading day immediately preceding the date of issuance
I-1
multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements; or
(ii)    to a number of shares of Common Stock and shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon the exercise of Qualifying Warrants, in the aggregate, not in excess of 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock (the "");
Common Cap
(g)    limit the right of the Corporation to issue APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism to an aggregate amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, the net proceeds from the issuance of which with respect to all deferral periods is equal to 25% of the liquidation or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities (the "");
Preferred Cap
(h)    in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities other than non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision; and
(i)    permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if it is involved in a merger, consolidation, amalgamation, binding share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a "") where immediately after the consummation of the Business Combination more than 50% of the surviving or resulting entity's voting stock is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the Business Combination, then clauses (a) through (c) of this definition will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following the date of consummation of the Business Combination (or if later, at any time within 90 days following the date of consummation of the Business Combination);
Business Combination
(and it being understood) that:
provided
(i)    the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
(ii)    if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, Maximum Share Number and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and
(iii)    if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a basis up to the Common Cap, Maximum Share Number and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as the Federal Reserve may approve.
pro rata
"" means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism, any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or any Mandatory Trigger Provision, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision or for any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, as applicable):
APM Qualifying Securities
(a)    Common Stock;
(b)    Qualifying Warrants;
(c)    Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; or
(d)    Qualifying Preferred Stock;
I-2
 
(and it being understood) that (i) if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision or for any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants, such Alternative Payment Mechanism, Mandatory Trigger Provision or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants and (ii) such Alternative Payment Mechanism, Mandatory Trigger Provision or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.
provided
"" means:
Applicable Percentage
(a)    133.33% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to June 1, 2017 (or June 1, 2027 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077);
(b)    200.00% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after June 1, 2017 and prior to June 1, 2037 (or on or after June 1, 2027 and prior to June 1, 2047 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077); and
(c)    400% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after June 1, 2037 (or June 1, 2047 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077).
"" means, as to a Depository Institution Subsidiary, the Federal bank regulatory agency or authority that is the "appropriate Federal banking agency" (within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.  1813(q)) with respect to such Depository Institution Subsidiary.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
"" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such securities to Distributions that accumulate during (A) any deferral period, in the case of securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (B) any period in which the issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of securities that have a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:
Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision
(i)    in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and
(ii)    in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) two years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that is still outstanding that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger Provision; that the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the remaining claim exceeds the amount set forth in clause (x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they would have received the claim for such excess ranked with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock.
provided
pari passu
"" means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
Business Day
"" has the meaning specified in Recital B.
Capital Securities
"" means, for purposes of selling APM Qualifying Securities, commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation in public offerings or private placements. The Corporation shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of APM Qualifying Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
I-3
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" has the meaning specified in clause (f) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Common Cap
"" means common stock of the Corporation (including common stock issued pursuant to the Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans).
Common Stock
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Corporation
"" means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.
Covered Debt
"" means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation or its Depository Institution Subsidiary during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt.
Covered Debtholder
"" has the meaning specified in Recital A.
Debentures
"" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "") that:
Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity
such securities
(i)    gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share of Common Stock that will be settled in three years or less, with the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable pursuant to such stock purchase contract to be within a range established at the time of issuance of such subordinated debt securities, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments and (ii) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation that are non-callable prior to the settlement date of the stock purchase contract;
(ii)    provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the holders' direct or indirect obligation to purchase Common Stock pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
(iii)    includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt securities are remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the last distribution date that is at least one month prior to the settlement date of the stock purchase contract; and
(iv)    provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Common Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the settlement date of the stock purchase contract, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its remedies as a secured party with respect to the subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by holders in the Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity.
"" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "") that:
Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity
such securities
(i)    gives the holder a beneficial interest in (a) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation that include a provision requiring the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such subordinated debt securities commencing not later than two years after the issuer first defers Distributions on such securities and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) and (b) an interest in a stock purchase contract that obligates the holder to acquire a beneficial interest in Qualifying Preferred Stock;
pari passu
I-4
 
(ii)    provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase Qualifying Preferred Stock pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
(iii)    includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of such securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (a) the capital ratios of the Corporation, (b) the capital ratios of the Corporation as anticipated by the Federal Reserve, or (c) the dissolution of the issuer of such Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;
(iv)    provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Qualifying Preferred Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its rights as a secured creditor with respect to the subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;
(v)    includes a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant that will apply to such securities and to any Qualifying Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the stock purchase contracts; that such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant will not include Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity as "Replacement Capital Securities"; and
provided
(vi)    after the issuance of such Qualifying Preferred Stock, provides the holder with a beneficial interest in such Qualifying Preferred Stock.
" means any Subsidiary of the Corporation that is a depository institution within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.  204.2(m).
Depository Institution Subsidiary"
"" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, the dates on which Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.
Distribution Date
"" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.
Distribution Period
"" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, dividends, interest or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Distributions
"" means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.
Eligible Debt
"" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer's then outstanding classes of indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (e) if issued by a Depository Institution Subsidiary, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (I) a subordinated basis or (II) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be
Eligible Senior Debt
I-5
deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
"" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer's then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks subordinate to the issuer's then outstanding series of indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior and ranks senior to the Debentures, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (e) if issued by a Depository Institution Subsidiary, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (I) a subordinated basis or (II) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
Eligible Subordinated Debt
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and any regional Federal Reserve Bank in which the Corporation owns stock.
Federal Reserve
"" means the legal final maturity date of the Debentures as determined under the Indenture.
Final Repayment Date
"" means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt or each beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency.
Holder
"" means the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated December 15, 1996, between the Corporation and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., (as successor in interest to the First national Bank of Chicago), as Trustee, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
"" means the Corporation's floating rate junior subordinated debentures due 2028, underlying the floating rate capital securities of State Street Capital Trust I CUSIP No. 857476AA3.
Initial Covered Debt
"" means, as to any Qualifying Preferred Stock or Qualifying Capital Securities, that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer under the Securities Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer will redeem or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption or repurchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed or repurchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption or repurchase date. Notwithstanding the use of the term "Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure" in the definitions of "Qualifying Capital Securities" and "Qualifying Preferred Stock", the requirement in each such definition that a particular security or the related transaction documents include Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure shall be disregarded and given no force or effect for so long as the Corporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure
"" means, from time to time, the Depository Institution Subsidiary of the Corporation with the greatest total assets that also has outstanding at least one series of Eligible Subordinated Debt; provided, however, that if no Depository Institution Subsidiary of the Corporation has outstanding a series of Eligible Subordinated Debt, this term shall mean the Depository Institution Subsidiary of the Corporation with the greatest total assets that also has outstanding at least one series of Eligible Senior Debt.
Largest Depository Institution Subsidiary
I-6
 
"" means cumulative preferred stock with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock of the Corporation within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
"" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that:
Mandatory Trigger Provision
(a)    require the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM Qualifying Securities within two years of a failure of the issuer to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions, that (i) if the Mandatory Trigger Provision does not require the issuance and sale within one year of such failure, the amount of Common Stock and/or Qualifying Warrants the net proceeds of which the issuer must apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Common Cap and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap;
provided
(b)    prohibit the issuer from purchasing or redeeming any APM Qualifying Securities or any of its securities ranking junior to or with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period until at least six months after all deferred Distributions have been paid, or, if the provisions described in clause (a) do not require such issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities within one year of such failure, until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid; and
pari passu
(c)    include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision;
(and it being understood) that:
provided
(i)    the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
(ii)    if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and
(iii)    if the issuer has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and applies some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a basis up to the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.
pro rata
No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities as a result of the issuer's failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.
"" means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
Market Disruption Event
(a)    the Corporation would be required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and such consent or approval has not yet been obtained notwithstanding the
I-7
Corporation's commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval or the Federal Reserve instructs the Corporation not to sell or offer for sale APM Qualifying Securities at such time;
(b)    trading in securities generally (or in the Corporation's Common Stock or preferred stock specifically) on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock is then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body having jurisdiction, and such suspension, disruption or the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock;
(c)    the number of shares necessary to raise sufficient proceeds to pay the deferred interest payments would exceed the Corporation's Shares Available for Issuance and consent of its shareholders to increase the amount of authorized shares has not been obtained (the Corporation having used commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent); provided that this Market Disruption Event will not relieve the Corporation of its obligation to issue the number of Shares Available for Issuance and to apply the proceeds thereof in partial payment of deferred Distributions;
(d)    a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
(e)    a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
(f)    the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
(g)    there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
(h)    an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (a) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Corporation or (b) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the ability of the Corporation to consummate such transaction, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
provided
(i)    the Corporation reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (h) above, that the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, that no single suspension period contemplated by paragraph (i) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by paragraph (i) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
provided
 
I-8
The definition of "" as used in any Replacement Capital Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation's preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.
Market Disruption Event
"" means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the market price will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected for this purpose by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof.
Market Value
"" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, a limit on the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued by the Corporation pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism with respect to such Qualifying Capital Securities or on the total number of shares of Common Stock underlying all Qualifying Warrants that may be issued by the Corporation pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism, (i) that the Corporation shall use commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Maximum Share Number when reached to enable it to simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of Common Stock and (ii) that the product of such Maximum Share Number and the Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such Qualifying Capital Securities shall not represent a lower proportion of the aggregate principal or liquidation amount, as applicable, of such Qualifying Capital Securities than the product of the Maximum Share Number applicable to the Debentures multiplied by the Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such Debentures represents of the aggregate principal amount of such Debentures.
Maximum Share Number
provided
"" means (a) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of the Securities on or prior to June 15, 2037, the date that is 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such purchase; (b) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of the Securities after June 15, 2037, the date that is 90 days prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase, except that, if during the 90-day (or any shorter) period preceding the date that is 90 days prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase, the Corporation and its Subsidiaries issued Replacement Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries but no repayment, redemption or purchase was made pursuant to clause (b) of Section 2 in connection therewith, the date upon which such 90 day (or shorter) period prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase began; and (c) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of the Securities after June 15, 2047, the date that is 30 days prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase, except that, if during the 150-day (or any shorter) period preceding the date that is 30 days prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase, the Corporation and its Subsidiaries issued Replacement Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries but no repayment, redemption or purchase was made pursuant to clause (b) of Section 2 in connection therewith, the date upon which such 150 day (or shorter) period prior to the date of such repayment, redemption or purchase began.
Measurement Date
"" means, with respect to any date on which notice of repayment or redemption is delivered with respect to the Securities or on which the Corporation repurchases, or any Subsidiary purchases, any Securities, the period beginning on the Measurement Date with respect to such notice or purchase date and ending on such notice or purchase date, as the case may be. Measurement Periods cannot run concurrently.
Measurement Period
"" means a provision or provisions in the transaction documents for securities or combination of securities (referred to in this definition as "") that include the following:
No Payment Provision
such securities
(a)    an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and
(b)    an Optional Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or (if the issuer elects to so provide in
I-9
the terms of such securities) shall in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism" applying.
"" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, that the issuer may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.
Non-Cumulative
"" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act.
NRSRO
"" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect that:
Optional Deferral Provision
(a)    (i) the issuer of such Qualifying Capital Securities may, in its sole discretion, or shall in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) such securities are subject to an Alternative Payment Mechanism (that such Alternative Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common Cap, Preferred Cap, Bankruptcy Claims Limitation Provision or Repurchase Restriction); or
provided
(b)    the issuer of such Qualifying Capital Securities may, in its sole discretion, or shall in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to at least ten years without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.
"" means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies:
Permitted Remedies
(a)    rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded); and
(b)    complete or partial prohibitions on the issuer paying Distributions on or repurchasing common stock or other securities that rank with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as distributions on such securities, including unpaid distributions, remain unpaid.
pari
passu
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" has the meaning specified in clause (g) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Preferred Cap
"" has the meaning specified in Recital C.
Prospectus Supplement
"" means securities or combinations of securities (other than securities covered by paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Section 2) that, in the determination of the Corporation reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:
Qualifying Capital Securities
(i)    in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Securities prior to June 1, 2017 (or June 1, 2027 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077):
(A)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (3) either:
pari passu
(x)    (I) have a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative and (II) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, or
I-10
(y)    have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;
(B)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank or junior to the Debentures upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (3) have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
pari passu
(C)    Qualifying Preferred Stock; or
(ii)    in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Securities at any time on or after June 1, 2017 but prior to June 1, 2037 (or anytime on or after June 1, 2027 but prior to June 1, 2047 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077):
(A)    securities described under clause (i) of this definition;
(B)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (3) either:
pari passu
(x)    are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and have an Optional Deferral Provision, or
(y)    (I) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (II) have a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative;
(C)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and (3) either:
pari passu
(x)    (I) have a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative and (II) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, or
(y)    have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;
(D)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (3) have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
pari passu
(E)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (i) rank senior to the Debentures and securities that are with the Debentures but (ii) junior to all other debt securities of the Corporation (other than (x) Debentures and securities that with the Debentures and (y) securities that are with such Qualifying Capital Securities) upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, and (2) either:
pari passu
are pari passu
pari passu
(x)    have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and either (I) are (a) Non-Cumulative or subject to a No Payment Provision and (b) subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (II) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, or
(y)    have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision;
(F)    preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (2) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (3) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant; or
I-11
 
(iii)     in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Securities at any time on or after June 1, 2037 (or June 1, 2047 if the Corporation extends the Final Repayment Date to June 1, 2077):
(A)    securities described under clause (ii) of this definition;
(B)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) either:
pari passu
(x)    have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, or
(y)    have no maturity or a maturity at least 40 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant; and
(3)    have an Optional Deferral Provision;
(C)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity at least 40 years are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (3) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision;
pari passu
(D)    securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that rank (i) senior to the Debentures and securities that are with the Debentures but (ii) junior to all other debt securities of the Corporation (other than (x) Debentures and securities that are with the Debentures and (y) securities that are with such Qualifying Capital Securities) upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, and (2) either:
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
(x)    have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and either (i) have an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (ii) (a) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision and (b) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, or
(y)    have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and either (i) (a) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision and (b) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (ii) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision; or
(E)    preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that either (1) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (2) has a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.
"" means non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation that (a) ranks with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation, and (b) either (x) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and has a provision that prohibits the Corporation from paying any dividends thereon upon its failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth therein, and (c) as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of dividends other than Permitted Remedies.
Qualifying Preferred Stock
pari passu
"" means a replacement capital covenant that is substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a replacement capital covenant, as identified by the Corporation's Board of Directors acting in good faith and in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, (i) entered into by a company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) that restricts the related issuer from redeeming, repaying or purchasing identified securities except to the extent of the applicable percentage of the net proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, repayment or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, repaid or purchased within the 180-day period prior to the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date.
Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant
"" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture.
Qualifying Warrants
I-12
 
"" means, as to the Covered Debt in effect at any time, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to repurchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date and (c) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt of the Corporation, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.
Redesignation Date
issuer Subsidiary may or may not be a "real estate investment trust" ("REIT") within the meaning of Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that is exchangeable for non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation and satisfies the following requirements:
which
"REIT Preferred Securities" means non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary,
(a)    such non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of the Depository Institution Subsidiary and the related non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchanged qualifies as Tier 1 capital of a Depository Institution Subsidiary under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency and related interpretive guidance of such Agency (for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Corporate Decision 97-109);
(b)    such non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of the Depository Institution Subsidiary must be exchangeable automatically into non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation in the event that the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency directs such Depository Institution Subsidiary in writing to make a conversion because such Depository Institution Subsidiary is (i) undercapitalized under the applicable prompt corrective action regulations (which, for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and applicable to national banks, are at 12 C.F.R. 6.4(b)), (ii) placed into conservatorship or receivership, or (iii) expected to become undercapitalized in the near term;
(c)    if such Subsidiary of the Depository Institution Subsidiary is a REIT, the transaction documents include provisions that would enable the REIT to stop paying dividends on its non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock without causing the REIT to fail to comply with the income distribution and other requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, applicable to REITs;
(d)    such non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation issued upon exchange for the non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary issued as part of such transaction ranks pari passu or junior to other preferred stock of the Corporation; and
d are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.
(e)    such REIT Preferred Securities and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchange
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Replacement Capital Covenant
"" means Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, REIT Preferred Securities or Qualifying Capital Securities.
Replacement Capital Securities
"" has the meaning specified in clause (c) of the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism."
Repurchase Restriction
"" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental Indenture.
Scheduled Maturity Date
"" has the meaning specified in Recital B.
Securities
I-13
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Securities Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Supplemental Indenture; that the Share Ratio for the Qualifying Capital Securities shall not be lower than it is for the Debentures. For purposes of this definition, the "Share Ratio" for the Debentures or any Qualifying Capital Securities, as the case may be, shall equal (i) the market value of the number of shares in the first bullet of "Description of the Debentures  Obligation to Seek Shareholder Approval to Increase Authorized Shares" determined as of the date the Debentures or such Qualifying Capital Securities, as the case may be, are issued by (ii) the excess of (x) the maximum amount of deferred interest (including compounded interest thereon) that could accrue on the Debentures or such Qualifying Capital Securities, as the case may be, in a 10-year deferral period (assuming for this purpose, if such Qualifying Capital Securities bear interest at a floating rate, that they bear interest at the fixed rate for which the issuer could swap such floating rate payments on arms' length terms at the time of issuance) (y) the maximum amount of deferred interest, if any, on the Debentures or such Qualifying Capital Securities, as the case may be, that could be settled pursuant to the issuance of Qualifying Preferred Stock pursuant to the applicable Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Shares Available for Issuance
provided
divided
over
 "" means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.
Subsidiary
"" means the Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2007, between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Company, as Trustee.
Supplemental Indenture
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).
Termination Date
"" has the meaning specified in Recital A.
Trust
 
I-14


