FILE:STT/STT-8K-20081203170556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 3, 2008, State Street Corporation announced a plan to reduce its operating costs and support its long-term growth while aligning the organization to meet the challenges and opportunities presented by the current market environment. To reduce its operating cost base, State Street is initiating a reduction in force of approximately 6 percent of the company's global workforce. The reductions of approximately 1,600 to 1,800 positions will occur principally between now and the end of the first quarter of 2009. State Street expects its total costs for the plan to be approximately $325 million to $350 million, of which approximately $295 million to $315 million are expected to relate to severance and benefit costs. In connection with the reduction and other cost reduction initiatives, State Street expects to record total pre-tax charges of approximately $325 million to $350 million, or $0.51 to $0.55 per share after-tax.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains statements, including statements about State Street's plans to reduce its operating cost base and the associated costs, that are considered "forward looking statements" within the meaning of United States securities laws. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing State Street's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this report.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in State Street's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its subsequent SEC filings, including, in particular, its Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 2008. State Street encourages investors to read these filings, particularly the "Risk Factors" sections, and its subsequent SEC filings for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as of the date hereof, December 3, 2008, and State Street does not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 3, 2008


