FILE:STT/STT-8K-20090306172250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 6, 2009, State Street entered into a letter agreement with each of Ronald E. Logue, Edward J. Resch, Joseph L. Hooley, Joseph C. Antonellis, and James S. Phalen, its named executive officers for purposes of disclosure in its proxy statement.
Under the terms of the letter agreement, each of the senior executive officers agreed to a provision permitting, under certain circumstances, the recovery by State Street of common stock provided to the officer in March 2009 in settlement of performance awards granted in early 2007 as part of 2006 incentive compensation, and for Messrs. Hooley and Antonellis, awards granted in December 2006 in connection with their appointment to the office of Vice Chairman. The settlement of these awards is consistent with the achievement of specified financial goals over the completed 2007-2008 period. In addition, the letter agreement contains a provision permitting the recovery by State Street of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid to these officers based on statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria that are later found to be materially inaccurate, all within the meaning of, and to the extent required by, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended.
A copy of the form of letter agreement is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 6, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
[Name]
c/o State Street Corporation
1 Lincoln Street
Boston, MA 02111
 
Dear Mr.                     ,
The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended ("") and associated regulations, interpretations and guidance that are now, or may in the future be, issued (the "") impose various compensation and corporate governance restrictions on State Street Corporation (""). Among these restrictions is a requirement, commonly referred to as a "clawback", that State Street recover any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid to certain senior or highly compensated employees under specified circumstances.
EESA
EESA Regulations
State Street
In addition, on March 5, 2009, the Executive Compensation Committee of State Street's Board of Directors, subject to your entering into this agreement, (a) awarded you incentive or retention compensation for 2008 (in the form of cash and restricted stock awards) and (b) settled (in the form of State Street common stock) performance, retention, promotion or similar awards (Cycle P, PEP II and PEP III). The compensation referred to in the preceding clauses (a) and (b) (collectively, the "") is set forth on hereto. One or more elements of the March Compensation may constitute prohibited payments under EESA and the EESA Regulations. The March Compensation is set forth on hereto.
i.e.,
March Compensation
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
In order to implement the above referenced EESA-related requirements, this letter confirms our agreement with you that any of the following ("") will be subject to recovery by State Street or its affiliates: (i) any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid to you if the payments were based on statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria that are later found to be materially inaccurate and (ii) any March Compensation provided or to be provided to you, if the provision thereof constitutes a prohibited payment under EESA and the EESA Regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such recovery shall be required hereunder only to the minimum extent necessary to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 111(b) of EESA and the associated EESA Regulations, and, specifically, without limitation, such recovery shall be required hereunder only: (A) to the extent you are a senior executive officer (as defined in Section 111 of EESA) or one of the next 20 most highly-compensated employees of State Street, (B) to the extent the Potentially Recoverable Compensation paid or provided to you is subject to Section 111(b)(3)(B) or (D) of EESA, as applicable, or (C) during the period in which any obligation arising from financial assistance provided to State Street under the TARP remains outstanding (all of the foregoing within the meaning of Section 111(b)(3) of EESA and the EESA Guidance, each to the extent applicable).
Potentially Recoverable Compensation
In the event of any recovery under the preceding paragraph, you agree that State Street may, and you authorize State Street, to (1) withdraw, transfer or otherwise remove cash or securities from an account you may have with any administrator or other service provider of State Street's or its affiliates' stock or equity plans or programs and (2) impose sale, transfer or similar restrictions on any State Street securities held by you or on your behalf.
This letter is not determinative of your status as an employee affected by Section 111 of EESA, and you reserve the right to contest your designation as such an employee now or in the future. Similarly, by entering into this agreement, you shall not be deemed to waive any right to contest the determination of State Street or the U.S. Department of the Treasury as to the amounts owed to you by State Street pursuant to your compensation arrangements or the terms of EESA or any EESA Guidance. In the event that Section 111 of EESA or any EESA Guidance is overturned by a non-appealable determination of a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise rescinded or revised, with the effect that all or any portion of any formerly withheld or clawed-back payment could be made to you, such amount shall become immediately due and payable to you.
This letter may be executed in one or more counterparts, and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This letter shall be governed by, and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Please sign this letter below to confirm your agreement with the above and return a fully executed copy of this letter to my office.
In order to allow timely delivery of March Compensation, please return this letter, fully executed by you, to Boon Ooi by 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on Wednesday, March 11, 2009.
 
 
 


