FILE:STT/STT-8K-20090120084959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 20, 2009
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.          Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 20, 2009, State Street Corporation issued a news release announcing its results of operations and related financial information for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.  A copy of that news release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 In addition, copies of slide presentations pertaining to (a) the State Street-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduit program as of December 31, 2008 and (b) State Streets investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008, each of which will be referenced in connection with the investor conference call to be held by State Street on January 20, 2009, are furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
The information in this Item 2.02, and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 2.02, such Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01.          Other Events.
This Form 8-K is being filed for the purpose of amending our risk factors disclosures. Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires otherwise, all references in this Form  8-K to State Street, we, us, our, or similar terms means State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
We are amending the risk factors disclosures we filed on a Form 8-K on January 16, 2009 to, among other things, correct the following information:  the aggregate net asset value of the unregistered cash collateral pools underlying our securities lending program (based on a constant net asset value of $1.00) on December 31, 2007, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008 was $194 billion, $167 billion and $122 billion, respectively, and the average weighted net asset value of the unregistered cash collateral pools based upon market value of the pools portfolio holdings (determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources) at December 31, 2008 was $0.939.  The risk factors disclosures, as amended, follow:
Risk Factors
This Form 8-K and other reports filed by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 contain statements that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of United States securities laws. In addition, State Street and its management may make other written or oral communications from time to time that contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including statements about industry trends, managements future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements about State Streets confidence in its strategies and its expectations about financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings.
Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on managements expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. Managements expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to State Street and its subsidiaries, including State Street Bank.  Factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to:
global financial market disruptions and the current worldwide economic recession, and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address such disruptions and recession in the United States and internationally;
the financial strength of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and with which we have investment or financial exposure;
the liquidity of the U.S. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities, and the liquidity requirements of our customers;
the credit quality and credit agency ratings of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss;
the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings;
the possibility that changes to accounting rules or in market conditions or asset performance may require any off-balance sheet activities, including the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer, to be consolidated into our financial statements, requiring the recognition of associated losses;
the possibility of our customers incurring substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of further general reductions in the valuation of assets;
our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding;
- 2 -
potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to the effects of consolidation, extensive and changing government regulation and perceptions of State Street as a suitable service provider or counterparty;
the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the United States and internationally;
our ability to measure the fair value of securities in our investment securities portfolio and in the asset-backed commercial paper conduits we sponsor;
the results of litigation and similar disputes and, in particular, the effect of current or potential litigation concerning SSgAs active fixed-income strategies, and the enactment of legislation and changes in regulation and enforcement that impact us and our customers, as well as the effects of legal and regulatory proceedings;
adverse publicity or other reputational harm;
our ability to pursue acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestures, finance future business acquisitions and obtain regulatory approvals and consents for acquisitions;
the performance and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of withdrawals from our collective investment products;
our ability to continue to grow revenue, attract highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements;
our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will fail or be circumvented;
the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;
our ability to obtain quality and timely services from third parties with which we contract;
changes in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and
changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due.
- 3 -
Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed above, below and elsewhere in this Form 8-K or disclosed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings.  Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date this Form 8-K is filed with the SEC. State Street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 8-K to reflect events after the date it is filed with the SEC. The factors discussed above are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. We cannot anticipate all potential economic, operational and financial developments that may adversely impact our operations and our financial results.
Forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate State Street. Any investor in State Street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our SEC filings, including our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form     8-K, or registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the SECs website at or on our website at .
www.sec.gov
www.statestreet.com
The following is a discussion of risk factors applicable to State Street.
Global financial market disruptions during 2007 and 2008 have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our business, and continued or additional disruptions in 2009 could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition.
Since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. In the second half of 2008, these factors resulted in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or significant government assistance to, a number of major domestic and international financial institutions, some of which were significant counterparties with us. These events, and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions, have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our business and have had an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. The continuation of current disruptions or the occurrence of additional disruptions in the global markets could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition.
The current worldwide economic recession is likely to adversely affect our business and our results of operations.
Our business is affected by global economic conditions, including regional and international rates of economic growth and the impact that such economic conditions have on the financial markets. Recent downturns in the U.S. and global economy have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations and liquidity, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations, as well as the business of our customers. A worsening of economic conditions in the U.S. or globally would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult conditions on us and on the financial services industry in general.
- 4 -
The failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are financial institutions, could expose us to loss.
The financial markets are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions, including banks, broker-dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. As a result of these interconnections we and many of our customers have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions. This concentration presents significant risks to us and to our customers because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties (or in some cases of our customers counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. The current instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, and as a result we are exposed to increased counterparty risks, both as principal and in our capacity as agent for our customers. Changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, is often based upon a variety of factors and is difficult to predict. In addition, as U.S. and non-U.S. governments have addressed the financial crisis in an evolving manner, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. If a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that materially adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.
Although our entire business is subject to these interconnections, several of our lines of business are particularly sensitive to them, including Treasury operations, currency and other trading, securities lending and investment management. Given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our customers counterparty credit risk. The current consolidation of financial service firms that began in 2008, and which we believe is likely to continue in 2009, and the failures of other financial institutions have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk.
In the normal course of business we assume significant credit and counterparty risk, and even when we hold collateral against this risk, we may incur a loss in the event of a default.
Our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume secured and unsecured credit and counterparty risk, both on- and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. We may experience significant intra- and inter-day credit exposure through settlement-related or redemption-related extensions of credit. The degree of the demand for such overdraft credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence. For example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the funds manager. Our relationship with our customers, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may limit our ability to decline to extend short-term credit in such circumstances. For some types of customers, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which increases our potential loss if the customer experiences credit difficulties. From time to time, we may assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or guarantor level. In addition, we may from time to time be exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events.
- 5 -
We are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures across multiple products to the same legal entity. As a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. Moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may be less at the time we exercise rights against that collateral than the value of the secured obligations. This risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. See, for example, In some cases, we have indemnified customers against a shortfall in the value of collateral that secures certain repurchase obligations of third parties to such customers.
We are exposed to the risk of losses as a result of certain customer relationships with Lehman Brothers.
In addition, our customers often purchase securities or other financial instruments from a broker-dealer under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. Under these arrangements, the broker-dealer is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the customer at the same price at some point in the future. The anticipated value of the collateral is intended to exceed the broker-dealers repayment obligation. In certain cases, we agree to indemnify our customers from any loss that would arise upon a default by the counterparty if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets is less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the customers counterparty. In those instances, we, rather than our customer, are exposed to the risks associated with counterparty default and collateral value.
We are exposed to the risk of losses as a result of certain customer relationships with Lehman Brothers.
We had indemnification obligations with respect to customer repurchase agreements with Lehman. In the case of some of our customers that entered into repurchase agreements with a U.S. based Lehman affiliate, we indemnified obligations totaling $1 billion and, following the bankruptcy of Lehman, paid this amount to our customers. Upon such payments, we took possession of the collateral, consisting of commercial real estate obligations, that was subject to our customers repurchase agreements with Lehman. Based upon our assessment of the likely proceeds to be received from the disposition or maturity of this collateral in light of the then current market environment, during the third quarter of 2008, we established a reserve of $200 million to cover the difference between the estimated fair value of the collateral at the time and the payment we made to our customers. As with other assets in our investment portfolio, we continue to evaluate the value of the collateral. Upon further evaluation or changes in market conditions, we may incur additional charges, if the value of the collateral deteriorates. In addition, upon disposition or maturity of the collateral, the loss incurred may be greater than $200 million.
- 6 -
In addition to the foregoing repurchase agreements, certain customers had entered into repurchase agreements with Lehmans United Kingdom affiliate. We have repaid those customers and taken possession of the related collateral; however, we believe that the proceeds from the disposition or maturity of the collateral will be at least equal to the amount we paid to such customers and, consequently, have not established a reserve related to those agreements. It is possible that we will incur losses relating to these agreements in the future.
We appointed Lehman as sub-custodian or prime broker for some of our custody customers and some investment funds managed by State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA. For custody customers, we made this appointment at their direction. In the case of investment funds managed by SSgA, we appointed Lehman in our capacity as manager of those funds. As of September 15, 2008, the date Lehman was placed in administration, our custody customers had claims against Lehman of approximately $325 million, and our investment funds had claims against Lehman of approximately $312 million, both in connection with Lehmans role as a sub-custodian or prime broker. Estimating the actual amount or timing of any recovery on our clients and funds claims against Lehman is currently not possible. While we believe that we acted appropriately in appointing Lehman as a sub-custodian and a prime-broker, some customers have requested that we compensate them for their losses. Any agreement to compensate any of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted.
As of December 31, 2008, there were $5.45 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with our portfolio of investment securities available for sale and held to maturity that were recorded in other comprehensive income in consolidated shareholders equity. In addition to these unrealized losses, there were $870 million of after-tax unrealized losses associated with securities held to maturity that were not required under GAAP to be recorded in other comprehensive income. Generally, the fair value of such securities is based upon market values supplied by third-party sources. Market values for the securities in our portfolio declined significantly during 2008 as liquidity and pricing generally in the capital markets was disrupted. When the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether that decline is other-than-temporary. See When management reviews whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, it considers numerous factors, many of which involve significant judgment. As 2008 progressed, rating agencies imposed an increasing number of downgrades and credit watches on the securities in our investment portfolio, which contributed to the decline in market values. Any continued increase in downgrades and credit watches may contribute to a further decline in market values. More generally, market conditions continue to be volatile, and we can provide no assurance that the amount of the unrealized losses will not increase.
We must apply significant judgment to assign fair values to our assets, and we may not be able to obtain these values, or any value, if these assets were sold.
To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized a $78 million charge to earnings as a result of other-than-temporary impairment determinations. If any such charge is significant, a rating agency might downgrade our credit rating or put us on credit watch. A downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. Even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with the investment portfolio require an impairment charge, increases in such unrealized losses adversely impact our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely impact credit rating agency and investor sentiment towards us. Such negative perception also may adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital.
- 7-
Our business activities, including the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer, expose us to liquidity and interest-rate risk.
In our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets, which is funded in large part by our customer deposit base. We may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the customers participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. These business activities include, among others, the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits that we administer, securities finance collateral pools and money market and other short-term investment funds.
In the asset-backed commercial paper conduits, for example, pools of medium- and long-term financial instruments, principally mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, are financed through the issuance of short-term commercial paper. The conduits strive to maintain a positive margin between the rate of return on their longer-term assets and the short-term cost of funding. This mismatch in the maturity of the investment pools and funding creates risk if disruptions occur in the liquidity of the short-term debt or asset-backed securities markets, or if the cost of short-term borrowings exceeds the conduits rate of return on their investment pools or purchased assets.
In connection with our administration of the asset-backed commercial paper conduits, we provide contractual back-up liquidity to the conduits. If the conduits cannot issue sufficient commercial paper to meet their ongoing liquidity needs, we are required by contract to, among other things, provide liquidity to the conduits by purchasing portfolio assets from them. If required, these portfolio assets are purchased at prices determined in accordance with contractual terms of the applicable liquidity asset purchase agreement, which may exceed their fair value. We may also provide liquidity to the conduits by purchasing commercial paper from them or by providing other extensions of credit to the conduits. Our asset-backed commercial paper conduit program experienced significantly reduced demand for its commercial paper financing beginning in the third quarter of 2007. As the disruption in the credit markets continued through 2008, our liquidity management of the conduits resulted in our purchasing historically high levels of commercial paper from the conduits. During 2008, the amount of commercial paper issued by the conduits on our consolidated balance sheet increased from approximately $2 million as of December 31, 2007 to approximately $292 million as of March 31, 2008, approximately $212 million as of June 30, 2008, and approximately $7.82 billion as of September 30, 2008 (including $1.6 billion under the AMLF program). On December 31, 2008, we held $230 million of commercial paper issued by the conduits on our consolidated balance sheet (which does not include $5.7 billion issued by the conduits under the Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding Facility as of December 31, 2008). The highest total overnight position (including AMLF) in the conduits commercial paper held by State Street during the three months ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $8.9 billion and during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $9.2 billion. The average total overnight position (including AMLF) for the same periods was approximately $5.48 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and $2.3 billion for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. As noted above, as of December 31, 2008, the conduits had utilized the Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding Facility to issue $5.7 billion of commercial paper. The Commercial Paper Funding Facility is currently scheduled to expire for new issuances on April 30, 2009. We may be required to provide additional back-up liquidity if the conduits are unable to place their commercial paper in the market after the Commercial Paper Funding Facility expires. Our contractual arrangements with the conduits also require us to purchase conduit portfolio assets under other circumstances, such as a downgrade of the credit rating of securities held by the conduits. Purchase of the assets of the conduits pursuant to the contractual agreements described above could affect the size of our consolidated balance sheet and related funding requirements, our capital ratios, and, if the conduit assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize those losses. As of December 31, 2008, there were $3.6 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with portfolio holdings of the conduits. Because of our contractual agreements to purchase assets from the conduits under specified conditions, we are also exposed to the credit risks in the conduits portfolios.
- 8 -
If for any reason we were to consolidate the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits that we administer onto our consolidated balance sheet, our funding requirements and capital ratios would be adversely affected and we may record significant unrealized losses.
The unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. If circumstances change, we may be required under existing accounting standards to consolidate some or all of the otherwise unconsolidated conduits onto our consolidated balance sheet. One factor taken into consideration in evaluating whether we are required to consolidate the conduits under existing accounting standards is whether we or third parties are exposed to the majority of the expected losses (as defined in the accounting literature) associated with certain risks in the conduits business. Investors not affiliated with us have purchased from the conduits notes commonly referred to as first-loss notes that bear loss, up to the principal amount of the notes, before any loss would be allocated to us. We use financial models to determine whether the expected losses from the conduits are greater or less than the principal amount of the first-loss notes. If changes in market conditions require us to update the assumptions in our expected loss model, such that we conclude that we absorb greater than 50% of the expected losses, we may be required to consolidate one or more of the conduits unless the amount of first-loss notes is increased. As of December 31, 2008, these conduits had an aggregate of $67 million of first-loss notes outstanding compared to $32 million at December 31, 2007. In various circumstances, including if the conduits are not able to issue additional first-loss notes, we may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits, and we would be required to consolidate the conduits assets and liabilities onto our consolidated balance sheet. Moreover, current market conditions have increased the difficulty we face in predicting any such future losses. For example, certain assets of the conduits are entitled to credit support from monoline insurance companies. Our loss analysis depends on our ability to judge whether these insurance companies will continue to perform their credit support obligations.
- 9 -
It is also possible that changes to applicable accounting standards will be adopted that require us to consolidate the conduits. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering changes to accounting standards related to off-balance sheet vehicles such as the conduits and industry-wide revisions are under discussion that, if adopted in the form currently under consideration, would require us to consolidate on January 1, 2010, all of the conduits we administer. Alternatively, existing accounting standards may be interpreted differently in the future in a manner that increases the risk of consolidation of the conduits. Consolidation would adversely affect the size of our consolidated balance sheet and related funding requirements, adversely affect our capital ratios and require us to recognize the conduits unrealized losses in the conduit assets resulting from the difference between the book value and the market value of the conduits portfolios. As of December 31, 2008, there were $3.56 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with portfolio holdings of the conduits.
We must apply significant judgment to assign fair values to our assets, and we may not be able to obtain these values, or any value, if these assets were sold.
As of December 31, 2008, approximately 39% of our consolidated total assets and approximately 8% of our consolidated total liabilities were carried at fair value. Accounting standards require us to categorize these assets and liabilities according to a fair value valuation hierarchy. Approximately 33% of our assets and approximately 8% of our liabilities are categorized in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy (meaning that their fair value was determined by reference to quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or other observable inputs) or level 3 (meaning that their fair value was determined by reference to inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 2 or 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective. In addition, we have historically placed a high level of reliance on information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties use different methodologies or provide different prices for securities. In addition, the nature of the market participant that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. For example, investment banks, such as the underwriters of our public offerings, may value our securities differently than securities pricing providers. Moreover, depending upon, among other things, the measurement date of the security, the subsequent sale price of the security may be different from its recorded fair value. These differences may be significant, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction.
Adverse conditions in the economy or financial markets may simultaneously trigger adverse events affecting multiple aspects of our business.
Adverse economic or financial market conditions could simultaneously adversely affect several aspects of our business. For example, conditions in the financial markets that might require us to purchase assets from the conduits pursuant to the liquidity asset purchase agreements or result in the consolidation of the conduits and recognition of the conduits unrealized losses may at the same time also require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in our portfolio of investment securities. If multiple aspects of our business are simultaneously impacted by economic or financial market conditions or other events, the demands on our liquidity may exceed our resources.
- 10 -
We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms.
As a result of continued disruption in the financial markets or other developments having an adverse effect on our capital ratios, we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or for other purposes. However, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us.
If our custody customers experience high levels of redemption requests from their investors, or if high volumes in the securities markets disrupt normal settlements, we may provide significant and unanticipated overdraft availability, exposing us to risk of loss.
We provide custody and related services for mutual funds and other collective investment vehicles managed by unaffiliated managers. Generally, these affiliated and unaffiliated collective investment pools offer investors liquidity on a daily basis or with notice periods of a month or less. During periods of disruption in the financial markets, failures in the settlement process tend to increase, and investor demand for liquidity from these investment pools can be extremely high relative to normal cash levels maintained by those funds. In such circumstances, we may, but generally are not required to, provide short-term extensions of credit. For example, during the second half of 2008, we funded higher than normal levels of overdrafts by unaffiliated mutual funds and other collective investment vehicles, with particular liquidity requirements by money market funds. The provision of such overdraft availability may affect the size of our consolidated balance sheet, which, in the absence of additional capital, could adversely affect our capital ratios. In addition, if these overdrafts are substantial relative to the net assets of the investment pool, we may be subject to the risk that the investment pool is unable to liquidate assets to pay down the overdraft or that a decline in the value of the investment pools assets may result in the fund not having sufficient assets to satisfy its obligation to repay the overdrafts, exposing us to risk of loss.
Our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our customers incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent.
Our management of collective investment pools on behalf of customers exposes us to reputational risk. The incurrence by our customers of substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share), in situations where we make distributions in-kind to satisfy redemption requests or in circumstances where one of our investment strategies significantly underperforms the market or our competitors products, could result in significant harm to our reputation and significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. Because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face increased risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate.
- 11 -
In some very limited circumstances, and consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we may compensate investment pools for all or a portion of the pools losses even though we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we elected to provide support to stable value accounts managed by SSgA. These accounts, offered to retirement plans, allow participants to purchase and redeem units at a constant net asset value regardless of volatility in the underlying value of the assets held by the account. The accounts enter into contractual arrangements with third-party financial institutions that agree to make up any shortfall in the account if all the units are redeemed at the constant net asset value. These financial institutions have the right, under certain circumstances, to terminate this guarantee with respect to future investments in the account. During 2008, the liquidity and pricing issues in the fixed-income markets adversely impacted the market value of the securities in these accounts to the point that the third-party guarantors considered terminating their financial guarantees with the accounts.
Although we were not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so, we elected to purchase approximately $2.5 billion of securities from these accounts that had been identified as presenting increased risk in the current market environment and to contribute an aggregate of $450 million to the accounts to improve the ratio of the market value of the accounts portfolio holdings to the book value of the accounts. This resulted in a fourth quarter net charge of $450 million. In addition, in January 2008, we contributed $160 million to the accounts. Any future decision by us to provide financial support to our investment pools would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses and could in certain situations require us to consolidate the investment pools onto our consolidated balance sheet. A failure or inability to provide such support could damage our reputation among current and prospective customers. Any termination by a third-party guarantor of its guarantee could, if we were unable to replace the guarantee, adversely affect our business or result in litigation.
We may be exposed to customer claims, financial loss, reputational damage and regulatory scrutiny as a result of transacting purchases and redemptions relating to the unregistered cash collateral pools underlying our securities lending program at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit rather than a lower net asset value based upon market value of the underlying portfolios.
A portion of the cash collateral received by customers under our securities lending program is invested in cash collateral pools that we manage. Interests in these cash collateral pools are held by unaffiliated customers and by registered and unregistered investment funds that we manage. Our cash collateral pools that are money market funds registered under the Investment Company Act are required to maintain, and have maintained, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. The remainder of our cash collateral pools are bank collective investment funds that are not required to be registered under the Investment Company Act. These unregistered cash collateral pools seek, but are not required, to maintain, and transact purchases and redemptions at, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. At December 31, 2007, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate net asset value of these unregistered cash collateral pools (based on a constant net asset value of $1.00) was approximately $194 billion, $167 billion and $122 billion, respectively.
- 12 -
Throughout 2008 and currently, these unregistered cash collateral pools have continued to transact purchases and redemptions at a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit even though the market value of the unregistered cash collateral pools portfolio holdings, determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources, has been below $1.00 per unit. At December 31, 2008, the net asset value based upon market value of our unregistered cash collateral pools ranged from $0.908 to $1.00, with the average weighted net asset value on such date being $0.939. A substantial portion of the decline in the market value of these assets occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe that our practice of continuing to transact at $1.00 per unit at the unregistered cash collateral pools, notwithstanding the underlying portfolios having a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, is consistent with the practices of other securities lending agents and in compliance with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools. We have continued this practice for a number of reasons, including that none of the securities in the cash collateral pools is currently in default or considered by the pools to be impaired, that there are restrictions on withdrawals from the collective investment funds and that the cash collateral pools have adequate sources of liquidity from normal lending activity under the securities lending program as a cash collateral pool without the need to sell securities whose value has been adversely impacted by the lack of liquidity in the fixed income markets. If we continue to transact purchases and redemptions from the unregistered cash collateral pools based upon a constant $1.00 per unit net asset value and the liquid assets of these pools turn out to be insufficient to support redemption activity at such value or the pools suffer material defaults on their underlying portfolio holdings, investors in the unregistered cash collateral pools may seek to hold us responsible for any shortfall due to prior redemptions at a value above the market value of the underlying portfolio or as a result of any such portfolio defaults.
Moreover, a broad range of unregistered collective investment pools that State Street Global Advisors manages, referred to as lending funds, participate in our securities lending program and as a result hold interests in the unregistered cash collateral pools discussed above. As a participant in these unregistered cash collateral pools, these lending funds may have the same claims as other clients discussed above. In addition, we have valued, for purpose of determining the net asset value of the lending funds, the units in the unregistered cash collateral pools at $1.00 per unit. If it were to be determined that the historical valuation of these units at $1.00 was not appropriate, or if we are required in the future to calculate the net asset value of the lending funds and calculate purchase and redemption prices of units of the lending funds based upon a value of less than $1.00 for units of the unregistered cash collateral pools that the lending fund holds, the net asset value of the lending funds may also be adversely affected and lending fund investors may claim that they overpaid for their investment and seek to hold us responsible for their related investment loss. If we continue to transact purchases and redemptions of units of the unregistered cash collateral pools at a net asset value that reflects a valuation of $1.00 per unit such potential exposure would likely increase over time. Since the percentage of a lending funds assets on loan varies based on the funds investment focus and with changes in market demand, the impact of this issue on the net asset value of the lending fund will vary significantly, but in some cases may be material. In such circumstances, our reputation as an asset manager and the marketability of these lending funds may be adversely affected and participants in our lending funds may seek to be compensated for any loss they incurred or allege to have incurred resulting from either a change in the reported net asset value of the collective investment pool or previous redemption and subscription activity in the collateral pools at the constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit.
- 13 -
Any claims asserted by investors in the unregistered cash collateral pools or our lending funds may be substantial, may entail litigation and may result in regulatory scrutiny of our securities lending program.
Our plan to reduce operating costs and support long-term growth may not achieve its intended objectives.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a $306 million charge in connection with a restructuring plan. The plan is intended to reduce our operating costs, including through global workforce reductions that are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009, in order to support our long-term growth while aligning the organization to meet the challenges and opportunities presented by the current market environment. Risks associated with implementing our restructuring plan and other workforce management issues may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business. We may also experience delays in implementing the plan. To the extent we make changes to the plan, we may incur additional charges.
If we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our capital ratios, our results of operations and our business prospects could be harmed.
Liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated balance sheet and to our ability to service our customer base. We generally use our sources of funds to:
extend credit to our customers in connection with our custody business;
meet demands for return of funds on deposit by customers; and
manage the pool of intermediate- and longer-term assets that comprise our investment portfolio.
Because the demand for credit by our customers is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent upon, access to various sources of short-term funding.
In managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is customer deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our customers, including in the capital markets. For example, the disruption in the global fixed-income securities markets, which began in the third quarter of 2007 and continued throughout 2008, had a substantially greater impact upon liquidity and valuations in those markets than has historically been experienced. In addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper, certificates of deposit and other short term instruments, significantly contracted during 2008. The availability and cost of credit in short-term markets is highly dependent upon the markets perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse consequences, including adverse accounting consequences.
- 14 -
If we are unable to successfully invest customer deposits our business may be adversely affected.
During the recent market disruptions, we experienced substantial inflows of liquid assets, particularly customer deposits, as short-term deposits with us in a disrupted market became more attractive relative to other short-term investment options. However, the contraction in the number of counterparties for which we had a favorable credit assessment made it difficult to invest, even on an overnight basis, all of our available liquidity, which adversely impacted the rate of return that we earned on these assets. As a result of this contraction of counterparties during the recent market disruptions, we have frequently placed deposits with government central banks, resulting in a minimal rate of return. If we continue to face difficulty investing these assets, our ability to attract customer deposits may be harmed, which would in turn harm our business and our results of operations.
Any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm.
Various rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. We anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings based on our results for the fourth quarter and developments in our business. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain our current ratings. The current market environment and exposure to other financial institution counterparties increases the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. A failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our customers or counterparties or may have other adverse reputational effects.
- 15 -
An actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength may cause others to reduce or cease doing business with us.
Our counterparties, as well as our customers, rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our customers may reduce or place limits upon the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers and our prospective customers may select other service providers. The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. If our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our customers, on our or our customers behalf, will be materially compromised. If our customers reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide them, our net interest and fee revenues will decrease accordingly.
Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm.
Our relationship with many of our customers is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain customers or our sources of funding. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. If any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer.
Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences.
In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. These steps included the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the provision of other direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets and whether the new administration and Congress will pursue similar strategies are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. In addition to these actions in the U.S., other governments have taken regulatory and other steps to support financial institutions, to guarantee deposits and to seek to stabilize the financial markets. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize the financial markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.
- 16 -
In addition, while these measures have been taken to support the markets, they may have unintended consequences on the global financial system or our businesses, including reducing competition, increasing the general level of uncertainty in the markets or favoring certain institutions or depositors. We may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment.
Our participation in the U.S. Treasurys TARP capital purchase program restricts our ability to increase dividends on our common stock, undertake stock repurchase programs and compensate our key executives.
In October 2008, the U.S. Treasury invested $2 billion in State Street pursuant to the TARP capital purchase program. The terms of the TARP capital purchase program require us to pay preferred cumulative dividends to Treasury and restrict our ability to increase dividends on our common stock, redeem Treasurys investment without receiving high-quality replacement capital, undertake stock repurchase programs and pay executive compensation. Additional restrictions may be imposed by Treasury or Congress on us at a later date, and these restrictions may apply to us retroactively. These restrictions may have a material adverse affect on our operations, revenue and financial condition, on our ability to pay dividends, or on our ability to attract and retain executive talent.
Government-imposed limitations on short sales and investor decisions to reduce short selling may harm our securities finance revenues.
Government-imposed prohibitions and restrictions on short sales of securities, designed to address perceived market abuses, negatively impacted the value of securities on loan during 2008. Although many of these restrictions have expired, continued reductions in the overall volume of short sales likely would decrease our securities finance revenues. In addition, media and regulatory focus on short selling, and losses incurred in securities finance programs sponsored by other financial institutions, have caused some institutional investors to reduce or eliminate their securities finance programs. Continued investor avoidance of short sales or renewed regulatory prohibitions on short sales would affect our business model and the demand for our services, and both our revenue from securities finance operations and the liquidity and market value of the collateral pools in which our customers invest may be adversely affected.
Because our fee income is based in part on the value of assets under custody or management, our business could be adversely affected by further declines in asset values.
The significant declines in equity and other financial markets globally during 2008 have adversely affected and are likely to continue to adversely affect our fee revenue, which is based in part upon the value of assets under custody, administration or management. Further deterioration or a continuation of recent market conditions is likely to lead to a continued decline in the value of assets under custody, administration or management, which would reduce our asset-based fee revenue and may adversely affect other transaction-based revenue, such as securities finance revenue, and the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. Many of the costs of providing our services are relatively fixed. Therefore, any such decline in revenue would have a disproportionate effect on our earnings.
- 17 -
The illiquidity and volatility of global fixed-income and equity markets has affected our ability to effectively and profitably manage our investment pools and may make our products less attractive to customers.
We manage assets on behalf of customers in several forms, including in collective investment pools, including money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. In addition to the impact on the market value of customer portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected our ability to manage customer inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. Within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our customers the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. This requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our customers. During the 2008 market disruptions, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all customer demands in these investment pools without adversely impacting the return to non-withdrawing customers became more difficult. For customers that invest directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and seek to terminate participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable customer arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities. Although we are entitled to make distributions in-kind, customers have in some cases sought, and may in the future seek, reimbursement for any loss that they incur in connection with the disposition of such securities. If these higher than normal demands for liquidity from our customers continue or increase, it could become more difficult to manage the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools and, as a result, we may elect (or in some situations be required) to support the liquidity of these pools. If the liquidity in the fixed-income markets were to deteriorate further or remain disrupted for a prolonged period, our relationship with our customers may be adversely affected, levels of redemption activity could increase and our results of operations and business prospects could be adversely impacted.
In addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and it may then be difficult to sell the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all.
Alternatively, although we have no such arrangements currently in place, we have in the past, and may in the future, guarantee liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund, and a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own liquidity and financial condition. Because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity demands of our customers. The extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to potential for the return on passive and quantitative products deviating from their target return. The temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain markets, such as occurred in Brazil and Russia in the second half of 2008, or artificial floors such as the one implemented in Pakistan, create a risk that customer redemptions in pooled investment vehicles may result in significant tracking error and underperformance relative to stated benchmarks. Any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests or to underperform relative to similar products offered by our competitors could harm our business and our reputation.
- 18 -
We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.
The markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. Many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. Ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. Many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. In some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. These competitors are in some instances significant customers, and the retention of these customers involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. The ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our customer after a short notice period. In addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services.
If we fail to attract new customers and cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our prospects for growth may be harmed.
Our strategy for growth depends upon both attracting new customers and cross-selling additional products and services to our existing customer base. To the extent that we are not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to meet our financial goals. In addition, our proactive cross-selling of multiple products and services to our customers can exacerbate the negative financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer.
Development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk.
Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. The introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. Substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our customers and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. Regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. Failure to manage successfully these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, as well as our results of operations and financial condition.
- 19 -
It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.
We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively, which may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. To the extent that we are not able to protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, employees with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others advantage. In addition, we may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. The intellectual property of an acquired business, such as that of Currenex, Inc. acquired in 2007, may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. However, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated.
We may be unable to increase the portion of our management fee revenue that is generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, and the investment performance of these products may result in a reduction in the fees that we earn.
Over the past several years, we have sought to increase the portion of our management fee revenue generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, with respect to which we generally receive fees at higher rates compared to passive products. We may not be able to continue to increase this segment of our business at a rate that is consistent with our business and financial goals. The amount of assets we are able to attract and retain in active strategies depends on the performance of such products relative to competitive products in the institutional marketplace. For example, our active fixed-income business continues to be adversely impacted by underperformance in certain fixed-income strategies that occurred in 2007. In addition, with respect to certain of our enhanced index and actively managed products, we have entered into performance fee arrangements, where the management fee revenue we earn is based on the performance of managed funds against specified benchmarks. The reliance on performance fees increases the potential volatility of our management fee revenue. If investment performance in our asset management business fails to meet either benchmarks or the performance of our competitors, we could experience a decline in assets under management and a reduction in the fees that we earn, irrespective of economic or market conditions.
- 20 -
Our business is subject to risks from foreign exchange movements.
The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. In general, increased currency volatility may increase our market risk, and our foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. In addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our levels of revenue, expense and earnings, as well as the value of our investment in our non-U.S. operations.
Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Our financial performance could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates as they impact our asset and liability management activities. The levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short-and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net interest revenue. Our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related exposures on and off our consolidated balance sheet can significantly influence the success of our asset and liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. The impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with their relevant currencies. In general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue.
Acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestures pose risks for our business.
Acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestitures of portions of our business, in addition to fostering organic growth opportunities, are an active part of our overall business strategy to remain competitive. The integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. Our financial results would be significantly harmed by an inability to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipated in valuing an acquired business. We may not be able effectively to assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. We also face the risk of being unable to retain the customer bases of acquired companies or unable to cross-sell our products and services to its customers. Acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and defection. Customers of asset servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. The loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, would adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the divestiture of identified businesses on satisfactory terms, if at all, which would reduce any anticipated benefits to earnings.
- 21 -
With any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired companys ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. The acquisition and combination of a business with our operations may also expose us to risks from unknown or contingent liabilities with respect to which we may have no recourse against the seller. Acquisition transactions are often competitive auctions in which we have limited time and access to information to evaluate the risks inherent in the business being acquired, and no or limited recourse against the seller if undisclosed liabilities are discovered after we enter into a definitive agreement.
We may not achieve the benefits we sought in an acquisition, or, if achieved, those benefits may be achieved later than we anticipated. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits from an acquisition could result in increased costs and lower revenues than expected of the combined company. In addition, if the financial performance associated with an acquisition falls short of expectations, it may result in impairment charges associated with the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded as part of the acquisition.
Unavailability of financing may make future business acquisitions or dispositions difficult.
Our ability to make acquisitions in order to achieve greater economies of scale or to expand our product offering is dependent upon our financial resources and our ability to access the capital markets. In addition, our ability to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our business model may be difficult if attractive financing is not available to prospective buyers. Due to company-specific issues or lack of liquidity in the capital markets, our ability to continue to expand through acquisitions or to dispose of businesses that no longer are strategic to us may be adversely affected.
We face significant regulatory hurdles when planning business acquisitions.
In connection with most acquisitions, before the acquisition can be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals or consents, which may include approvals of the Federal Reserve Board, the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms. Any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction.
Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business.
Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely impact customer perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. In some of our businesses, we have experienced significant employee turnover, which increases costs, requires additional training and increases the potential for operational errors.
- 22 -
Long-term fixed-price contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk.
We enter into long-term fixed-price contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services to customers, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. The long-term contracts for these relationships require considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. Profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. Our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely impacted by declines in the assets under the customers management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or customer specific issues. In addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross sell additional services to these customers, and we may be unable to do so.
In addition, performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. Our failure to meet specified service levels may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the customer. If the current decline in overall market securities valuations persists or our customers are unable to grow their businesses, these relationships may not be successful. These relationships have been an area of rapid growth in our business, and if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see a slowdown in the growth rate of our revenue.
We face significant risks developing and implementing our future business plans and strategies.
In order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our future business plans, including plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and plans to build new systems and other infrastructure. Our business, our results of operations and our financial position may be adversely affected by incorrect business and strategic decisions or improper implementation of our decisions. If the business decisions that we make prove erroneous, we may fail to be responsive to industry changes or customer demands. Moreover, the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to derive any related revenues, and therefore it may be difficult to alter or abandon plans without incurring significant loss.
- 23 -
We are exposed to operational risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
Operational risk is inherent in all of our activities. Our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. We face the risk that the policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, be inadequate or become outdated. We also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future results of operations. Operational errors that result in us sending funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies from operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
We depend on information technology, and any failures of our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage.
Our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. Any interruptions, delays or breakdowns of this infrastructure could result in significant costs and reputational damage.
Cost shifting to foreign jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings.
We actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, including by forming joint ventures and by establishing operations in lower cost areas, such as Poland, India and China, and outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. This effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. During periods of transition, greater operational risk and customer concern exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. The extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. Such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations.
- 24 -
Any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects.
Our businesses and relationships with customers are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our customers trade secrets and confidential information (including customer transactional data and personal data about our employees, our customers and our customers customers). Unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. Any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our customers and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries and enforcement, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs.
Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation.
From time to time, our customers may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our litigation risk exposure when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible.
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely to us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. The resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved.
We face litigation risks in connection with SSgAs active fixed-income strategies.
In connection with certain of SSgAs active fixed-income strategies, we established a reserve of approximately $625 million to address legal exposure and related costs in connection with such strategies during the fourth quarter of 2007. Among other things, the portfolio managers for certain actively managed fixed-income strategies materially increased the exposure of these strategies to securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages and shifted the weighting of these portfolios to more highly rated sub-prime instruments. During the third quarter of 2007, as the liquidity and valuations of these securities, including the more highly rated instruments, came under increased pressure, the performance of these strategies was adversely, and in some cases significantly, affected. The underperformance, which was greater than that typically associated with fixed-income funds, also caused a number of our customers to question whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with their investment intent. This has resulted in several civil suits, including putative class action claims, applicable both to funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and to those that are exempt from such registration. These lawsuits allege, among other things, that we failed to comply with applicable investment limitations, disclosure obligations and our requisite standard of care in managing these active funds, including those where we act as a fiduciary under ERISA. We have also received, and are in the process of responding to, inquiries or subpoenas from federal and state regulatory authorities regarding SSgAs active fixed-income strategies. Given our desire to fully respond to customer concerns, in the fourth quarter of 2007, State Street undertook a further review of all the actively managed fixed-income strategies at SSgA that were exposed to sub-prime investments. Based on our review and ongoing discussions with customers who were invested in these strategies, we established a reserve to address our estimated legal exposure.
- 25 -
The reserve was established based upon our best judgment as to legal exposures and related costs associated with certain actively managed fixed-income investment strategies. As of December 31, 2008, we had made settlement and related payments totaling approximately $417 million. The amount of the original reserve was based on certain assumptions. While we believe the reserve represents a reasonable estimate of our legal exposure and other costs associated with these issues, we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the amount of such exposure with certainty. As such, it is possible that we have overestimated or underestimated our exposure. If the amount of our actual exposure is materially different from our reserve, there would be a material impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.
We face extensive and changing government regulation, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance.
Most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the customers to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. As a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the U.S. and outside the U.S. in connection with our global operations. The regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner in which we market our services. Evolving regulations, such as the Basel II and other global regulatory capital frameworks, short-selling regulations and anti-money laundering regulations, may impose significant compliance costs on us. The disruption of the financial markets in 2008 and resulting governmental support of, and loss of confidence in, financial institutions is likely to result in demand for increased and more extensive regulation of our business both in the U.S and internationally. Different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manner, which could have the impact of increasing the cost of compliance for us. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry.
- 26 -
If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our financial results. Similarly, many of our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. If we cause customers to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results.
Changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.
New accounting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC, can potentially affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These changes are difficult to predict, and can materially impact how we record and report our consolidated financial condition and results of operations and other financial information. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of prior period financial statements.
Changes in tax laws or regulations, and challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.
Our businesses can be affected by new tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. Changes in tax laws may affect our business directly or indirectly through their impact on the financial markets. In the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. These reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. These adjustments could affect the attainment of our financial goals.
Prior to 2004, we entered into certain leveraged leases, known as sale-in, lease-out, or SILO, transactions. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, challenged our tax deductions arising from those transactions. During the second quarter of 2008, while we were engaged in settlement discussions with them, the IRS won a court victory in a SILO case involving other taxpayers. Shortly after that decision the IRS suspended all SILO settlement discussions and, on August 5, 2008, issued a standard SILO settlement offer to most taxpayers that had such transactions. After reviewing the settlement offer carefully, we have decided not to accept it but to continue to pursue our appeal rights within the IRS.
- 27 -
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 13, , we recorded income and deferred tax liabilities with respect to the SILO transactions based on projected pre-tax and tax cash flows. In consideration of the terms of the settlement offer and the context in which it was issued, we have revised our projections of the timing and amount of the tax cash flows and we have reflected those revisions in our leveraged lease accounting under SFAS No. 13.  In the third quarter of 2008 we substantially increased our reserve for tax-related interest expense that may be incurred upon resolution of this matter.
Accounting for Leases
If we were to further revise our projection of the timing or amount of the tax cash flows from the leases, SFAS No. 13 would require us to again recalculate the rate of return and the recognition of income from the leases from inception. In addition to the SFAS No. 13 recalculation, it is possible that we would increase our reserve for tax-related interest expense, which would be recorded as an increase to income tax expense.
The quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in imprecise risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions.
We use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our business. As an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk and business risk we face. During the preparation of our financial statements, we sometimes use models to value positions for which reliable market prices are not available. We also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset-liability management and whether to change business strategy. In all of these uses, errors in the underlying model could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. Because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us.
Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate.
We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. We cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems are adequate to identify and manage the risks inherent in our various businesses. In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses.
We may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face, which could subject us to losses.
We may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. Our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations we rely on may not continue to be relevant. Consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. Additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. While our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses.
- 28 -
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
- 29 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 30 -
E
xhibit
Index
- 31 -

Exhibit 99.1
State Street Reports 2008 Earnings Per Share of $3.89, up 13% on a Revenue Gain of 28% Compared to 2007
Full-Year Operating Earnings Per Share Increased 14% to a Record $5.21 Per Share on a 25% Gain in Operating Revenue
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 20, 2009--State Street Corporation today announced full-year 2008 earnings of $3.89 per share on net income of $1.620 billion compared with $3.45 per share on net income of $1.261 billion in 2007. Revenue in 2008 is $10.693 billion, up 28% from $8.336 billion in 2007. Return on common shareholders equity in 2008 is 13.4% equal to 13.4% in 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2008, State Street reported earnings of $0.15 per share on net income of $65 million, compared to net income of $223 million, or $0.57 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007. Revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 is $2.673 billion, up 8% from $2.479 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007. Return on common shareholders equity is 2.3% in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to 7.7% in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Management also presents results on an operating basis in order to provide financial information that is comparable from period to period and to present comparable financial trends with respect to our ongoing business operations. A full reconciliation of operating-basis results to U.S. generally accepted accounting principals (GAAP) is included in the addendum at the end of this press release.
Operating-basis results for the full-year 2008 exclude previously reported net effects of $(28) million, or $(0.25) per share, as well as fourth-quarter net effects of $(723) million, or $(1.03) per share, including $(450) million related to the previously disclosed transaction with certain stable value funds managed by State Street Global Advisors; restructuring charges of $(306) million, primarily associated with our previously announced reduction in force; merger and integration costs of $(27) million associated with the 2007 acquisition of Investors Financial Services Corp. (Investors Financial); partially offset by net interest revenue of $60 million from acting as an intermediary under the Federal Reserve Banks Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Liquidity Facility (AMLF). Operating- basis results for the full-year 2007 exclude $(665) million in pre-tax charges associated with active fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors and merger and integration costs associated with Investors Financial. Operating-basis results for the fourth-quarter of 2007 exclude $(524) million in pre-tax charges associated with active fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors and merger and acquisition costs associated with Investors Financial. Operating-basis revenue for all periods is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
The following financial results are presented on an operating basis, as discussed below.
Operating-basis earnings for the full-year 2008 are $5.21 per share, up 14% from $4.57 per share in 2007. Operating-basis revenue in 2008 is up 24.8% to a State Street record of $10.477 billion from $8.394 billion in 2007. Operating-basis expenses in 2008 of $7.058 billion increased 22.4% from $5.768 billion in 2007. On an operating basis, we achieved 240 basis points in positive operating leverage in the year-over-year comparison. Operating-basis return on common shareholders equity in 2008 is 17.9%, up from 17.7% in 2007.
Operating-basis earnings per share in the fourth quarter are $1.18 per share down 14 % from $1.38 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007. Operating revenue of $2.641 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 is up 5.8% from $2.496 billion in the fourth quarter a year ago. Operating-basis expenses of $1.806 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 are up 9.5% from $1.649 billion in the year-ago quarter. For the fourth quarter of 2008, operating return on common shareholders equity is 18.3%, down from 18.7% for the fourth quarter of 2007.
The balance sheet declined from $286 billion at September 30, 2008, to $174 billion at year end. Excluding $52 billion in excess deposits held at central banks at December 31, 2008, compared with $54 billion at September 30, 2008, and $6billion of investment securities related to the AMLF, compared to $77 billion at September 30, 2008, the normalized balance sheet was $116 billion at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007 the balance sheet was $143 billion. Our regulatory ratios continue to be strong as of December 31, 2008. The tier-1 capital ratio stood at 20.49% and our tier-1 leverage ratio was 7.74%.
Reflecting the ongoing illiquidity in the markets at December 31, 2008, the after-tax, unrealized mark-to-market losses in the investment portfolio increased to $6.3 billion ($5.45 billion recorded in OCI and $.87 billion in HTM, not recorded in OCI), up $3.0 billion from September 30, 2008, and in the State Street-administered asset-backed commercial paper conduits increased to $3.6 billion up $1.4 billion from September 30, 2008. Since year end the unrealized after-tax losses in the investment portfolio have improved $400 million to $5.9 billion as of Friday, January 16, 2009.
Commenting on the performance, Ronald E. Logue, State Street's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "I am pleased that we either met or exceeded our financial goals in 2008. Fiscal year 2008 represents our fourth consecutive year of double-digit growth both in revenue and operating earnings per share. New business wins in 2008 totaled $1.66 trillion in asset servicing with $317 billion to be installed in 2009 and $198 billion in asset management with $24 billion to be installed this year. Servicing fees, trading services, securities finance and net interest revenue each recorded significant double-digit revenue growth in 2008.
Logue commented on the quality of State Streets assets, We continue to believe that the asset quality of both our investment portfolio and the conduit program remains strong. None of the securities is in default and all are current for principal and interest. In 2008, more than $8 billion in structured securities in our investment portfolio paid down at par, yet had a fair market value, which on average was at a 7.8% discount to book value. We expect the vast majority of our securities to behave similarly as they mature. The current trend in the market is encouraging, but we recognize it only measures two-weeks progress.
Logue added, While we expect 2009 to present industry-wide challenges, we believe that the revenue drivers we have identified and the expense controls we have in place, will allow us to meet the following 2009 financial goals, all stated on an operating basis. We expect our revenue in 2009 to be approximately flat with our record revenue in 2008, down from our long term goal of 8% to 12% growth. We expect our operating earnings per share to also be approximately flat with 2008, below our long-term goal of 10% - 15% growth, and we expect operating return on equity to be slightly below the long-term goal of 14% to 17%. We continue to target positive operating leverage on an annual basis.
Citing specific revenue drivers for 2009, Logue said, Our business pipeline is strong. In addition to those 2008 wins that are scheduled for installation in 2009, we are meeting with potential customers from very large fund complexes that are considering outsourcing their back and/or middle office to us in order to create some variable expense for their organizations. Also large hedge funds, that have historically self-administered their holdings are looking for an outsource partner to create more transparency for their funds and their shareholders. Further, we are expecting new government mandates for increased regulations and transparency to create opportunities for us to develop products for our customers.
Logue concluded, Regarding net interest income, we expect 2009 net interest income and net interest margin to be approximately flat with 2008. We have $15 billion of low-yielding securities maturing, which we will re-invest in AAA-rated asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities at higher yields if government programs begin to normalize markets.
State Street evaluates the market from time to time. Following recent discussions with investors, State Street has determined not to raise equity capital in this turbulent market.
Following are three tables that display specified reported-basis and operating-basis results for legacy State Street as well as for the acquired Investors Financial business. The first two tables present results for the full year 2008 and 2007 and the fourth quarter for 2008 and 2007, reported in accordance with GAAP and the effects of the non-operating items excluded from operating-basis results. The third table describes the results in four categories: Baseline, Investors Financial, Operating, and Reported. Management believes such presentation facilitates an investors understanding and analysis of our underlying performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, management believes that providing separate Investors Financial results and baseline financial information further assists investors and analysts in understanding the effect of that acquisition.
Operating results for 2008 are reported results, excluding the impact of the CitiStreet gain, AMLF revenue, the charge associated with SILO leasing transactions, the reserve associated with the estimated net exposure to an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.; the merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial the charge associated with certain of State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors, and the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force, and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
a
Reported results are in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
b
Operating results for 2007 are reported results, excluding the impact of the merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial and a net charge associated with certain fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
c
Non-operating provisions include, for 2008, the charge associated with certain of State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors, the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force, and the reserve associated with the estimated net exposure to an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.; for 2007, includes the net charge associated with certain active fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors.
d
Operating results in the fourth quarter of 2008 are reported results, excluding the impact of AMLF revenue, the charge associated with certain of State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors, the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force, and merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial; and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
a
Reported results are in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
b
Operating results in the fourth quarter of 2007 are reported results, excluding the impact of the merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial and a net charge associated with certain fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
c
Non-operating provisions include, for 2008, the charge associated with certain of State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors and the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force; and for 2007, includes the net charge associated with certain active fixed-income strategies at State Street Global Advisors.
d
Baseline results represent results of legacy State Street on an operating basis excluding AMLF revenue, the impact of the charge associated with the State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors, the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force, and merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial; and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
(a)
Investors Financial results represent revenue and expenses, including financing costs and amortization of intangibles, attributable to the Investors Financial business acquired on July 2, 2007, but excluding merger and integration costs. Presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Per-share amounts reflect the impact on outstanding shares from the issuance of approximately 61 million shares for the acquisition.
(b)
Operating results are reported results, excluding AMLF revenue, the impact of the charge associated with the State Street Global Advisors managed accounts with exposure to third-party guarantors, the restructuring charges primarily associated with the reduction in force, and merger and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Investors Financial; and are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
(c)
Reported results are in accordance with GAAP.
(d)
FULL YEAR 2008 VS. 2007
On an operating basis, total revenue increased 24.8% from $8.394 billion to $10.477 billion. Servicing fees increased 11%, from $3.388 billion to $3.745 billion. Management fees decreased 10%, from $1.141 billion to $1.028 billion. Trading services revenue increased 27%, from $1.152 billion to $1.467 billion and securities finance revenue increased 81%, from $681 billion to $1.230 billion. Processing fees and other revenue increased 2%, to $277 million from $271 million. Fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue increased 56%, from $1.788 billion to $2.784 billion.
On an operating basis, expenses increased 22.4%, from $5.768 billion to $7.058 billion. On an annual, operating basis, the Company achieved approximately 240 basis points of positive operating leverage. Operating expenses included an increase of 21% to $4.120 billion in salaries and employee benefits expense. Transaction processing expense increased 4% to $644 million and information systems and communications increased 16% to $633 million. Occupancy expense increased 14% to $465 million. Other expenses increased 50% to $1.196 billion.
RESULTS OF THE FOURTH-QUARTER OF 2008 VS. YEAR-AGO QUARTER
On an operating basis, total revenue is $2.641 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008, up from $2.496 billion, or 5.8%, from the fourth quarter of 2007. Expenses on an operating basis are $1.806 billion, up 9.5% compared with $1.649 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Servicing fees are $842 million, down 13%, from $967 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower equity valuations Total assets under custody at quarter end are $12.04 trillion, down 21%, compared with $15.30 trillion at the end of the year-ago quarter.
.
Daily average values for the S&P 500 Index are down 39%, for the MSCI EAFE Index are down 47%, and for the NASDAQ are down 41% during the fourth quarter of 2008 from the year-ago quarter.
SM
Management fees, generated by State Street Global Advisors, are $209 million, down 30%, compared to $297 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in management fees reflects lower average month-end equity valuations and lower performance fees. Total assets under management at quarter end are $1.44 trillion, down 27%, compared to $1.98 trillion at the end of the year-ago quarter.
Average month-end values compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, are down 38% for the S&P 500 Index and down 41% for the NASDAQ; average month-end values for the MSCI EAFE Index are down 48%. The total return of the Lehman US Aggregate bond index for the fourth quarter is 4.58%.
SM
Trading services revenue, which includes foreign exchange trading revenue and brokerage and other fee revenue, is up 19%, from $352 million to $418 million. The increase is driven by higher volatility in foreign exchange, offset partially by a decline in foreign exchange volumes and in brokerage and other revenue.
Securities finance revenue is $329 million in the quarter, compared to $256 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 29%. The increase reflects improved spreads, offset partially by a lower level of demand for securities on loan reflecting the overall deleveraging of securities that occurred during the third and fourth quarters of 2008.
Processing and other revenue is up 51%, to $83 million primarily due to increases in product-related revenue.
Fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue is $811 million, up 42% from $573 million in last years fourth quarter. The increase in net interest revenue is due to wider spreads on assets due to lower funding costs as a result of the reductions in the Fed Funds rate near the end of the third quarter and in fourth quarter. Net interest margin during the fourth quarter of 2008 increased to 2.28% from 1.95% in the year-ago period. During the quarter the Company recorded $78 million in other-than-temporary impairment charges on eleven investment securities, offset partially by $27 million in gains from the sales of securities and gains on security dispositions.
The 9.5% increase in expenses on an operating basis from $1.649 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007 to $1.806 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 is primarily due to an increase in other expenses as well as in salaries and benefits costs. Salaries and employee benefits expense on an operating basis increased $42 million to $976 million, attributable to a higher headcount and benefits costs, offset partially by lower incentive compensation. Transaction processing expense decreased 21% to $145 million principally due to lower subcustodian and brokerage fees. Information systems and communications expense increased 10% to $163 million, and occupancy expenses of $124 million in 2008 quarter compare to $107 million in the 2007 quarter. On an operating basis, other expenses increased 44%, or $122 million, to $398 million, primarily due to increased securities processing costs and regulatory fees and assessments.
On an operating basis, the effective tax rate was 34.0% in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with 34.9% in the fourth quarter of 2007. We expect the rate for 2009 to be approximately 34.0%.
RESULTS OF THE FOURTH-QUARTER OF 2008 VS. THIRD QUARTER OF 2008
On an operating basis, fourth-quarter earnings are $1.18 per share as compared to third-quarter earnings of $1.24 per share. Total revenue on a fully tax-equivalent basis in the 2008 fourth quarter of $2.641 billion is up 4.1%, or $105 million compared to $2.536 billion in the third quarter. On an operating basis, expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008 are $1.806 billion up 6.5%, or $111 million, from third-quarter expenses of $1.695 billion.
Servicing fee revenue is down 13% due to significantly lower average equity valuations.Management fee revenue is down 20% due to significantly lower average month-end equity valuations and lower performance fees. Trading services revenue is up 15% to $418 million primarily due to higher volatility, partially offset by lower volumes in foreign exchange. Securities finance revenue improved 34% to $329 million due to improved spreads, partially offset by a lower level of loaned securities Processing fees and other revenue increased 32% to $83 million due to increases in product-related revenue.
.
Fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue increased 27% to $811 million due to the wider spreads on assets following a significant cut in the Fed Funds rate in the fourth quarter and an increase in lower-cost funding.
Salaries and employee benefits expense is down 5% on an operating basis primarily due to lower incentive compensation. Transaction processing expense is down 12% due to lower brokerage and subcustodian fees. Information systems and communication is up 8% to and occupancy expense is up 7%. On an operating basis, other expense increased 65%, or $157 million, to $398 million. Other expenses included increased securities processing costs, additional regulatory fees and assessments, as well as legal and compliance costs.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
All per share amounts represent diluted earnings per common share based on average common shares outstanding for the respective period reported. Positive operating leverage is defined as the excess rate of growth of total revenue over the rate of growth of total operating expenses, each determined on an operating basis.
INVESTOR CONFERENCE CALL
State Street will webcast an investor conference call today, Tuesday, January 20, 2009, at 9:30 a.m. EST, available at . The conference call will also be available via telephone, at +1 706/679-5594 (conference ID 77064958). Recorded replays of the conference call will be available on the web site, and by telephone at +1 706/645-9291 (conference ID 77064958), beginning approximately two hours after the calls completion. The telephone replay will be available for approximately two weeks following the conference call. This press release, presentation materials to be referred to on the conference call and additional financial information are available on State Streets website, at , under Investor InformationLatest News, Annual Reports and Financial TrendsFinancial Trends and Investor Events and Presentations.
www.statestreet.com/stockholder
www.statestreet.com/stockholder
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is the world's leading specialist in providing institutional investors with investment servicing, investment management and investment research and trading services. With $12.04 trillion in assets under custody and $1.44 trillion in assets under management at December 31, 2008, State Street operates in 27countries and more than 100 geographic markets worldwide and employs 28,475 worldwide.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news announcement contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and strategies, the financial and market outlook, governmental and regulatory initiatives and developments and the business environment. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include:
global financial market disruptions and the current, worldwide economic recession, and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address such disruptions and recession in the United States and internationally;
the financial strength of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and with which we have investment or financial exposure;
the liquidity of the U.S. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities, and the liquidity requirements of our customers;
the credit quality and credit agency ratings of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss;
the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings;
the possibility that changes to accounting rules or in market conditions or asset performance may require any off-balance sheet activities, including the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer, to be consolidated into our financial statements, requiring the recognition of associated losses;
the possibility of our customers incurring substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of further general reductions in the valuation of assets;
our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost short-term funding;
potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to the effects of consolidation, extensive and changing government regulation and perceptions of State Street as a suitable service provider or counterparty;
the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the United States and internationally;
our ability to measure the fair value of securities in our investment securities portfolio and in the asset-backed commercial paper conduits we sponsor;
the results of litigation and similar disputes and, in particular, the effect of current or potential litigation concerning SSgA's active fixed-income strategies, and the enactment of legislation and changes in regulation and enforcement that impact us and our customers, as well as the effects of legal and regulatory proceedings;
adverse publicity or other reputational harm;
our ability to pursue acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestures, finance future business acquisitions and obtain regulatory approvals and consents for acquisitions;
the performance and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of withdrawals from our collective investment products;
our ability to continue to grow revenue, attract highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements;
our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will fail or be circumvented;
the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;
our ability to obtain quality and timely services from third parties with which we contract;
changes in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and
changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due.
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent SEC filings, including, in particular, our Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 20, 2009. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on Risk Factors, and our subsequent SEC filings for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release speak only as of the date hereof, January 20, 2009, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
CONTACT: State Street Corporation Edward J. Resch, +1 617-664-1110 or Investors: Kelley MacDonald, +1 617-664-3477 or Media: Hannah Grove, +1 617-664-3377

Exhibit 99.2
Asset-Backed Commercial Paper   As of December 31, 2008  January 20, 2009
Asset Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP) Conduits     State Street-Sponsored Conduits  2  Multiseller Peer Group**  **Source: Moodys Investor Service; Data as of 9/30/08  Multiseller Peer Group, identified by Moodys, consists of 51 domestic and international banks   * NR Assets in State Street-Sponsored Conduits reflect structured transactions.  These transactions are not rated but have been reviewed by rating agencies and have been structured to maintain a P1 or similar conduit rating.   Moodys peer group includes: Citibank, NA, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Societe Generale, ABN AMRO, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America NA, Fortis Banque SA, Barclays Bank, Rabobank Nederland, Lloyds TSB Bank, State Street Bank, Calyon, Bayerische Landesbank GZ, Dresdner Bank AG, Royal Bank of Canada, WestLB AG, Wachovia Bank, HSBC Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland, BNP Paribas, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Commerzbank AG, Hudson Castle Group Inc., Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg, Credit Suisse, Bank of Montreal, Bank of Nova Scotia, ING Bank, SunTrust Bank, Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG, CIBC, Credit Foncier de France, Danske Bank A/S, DZ Bank, GE Capital, HBOS, HSH Nordbank AG, IntesaBCI, IXIS, KBC Bank, Landesbank Hessen-Thuringen GZ, MBIA, Merrill Lynch, Mizuho Bank, National Australia Bank, Natixis, Norddeutsche Landesbank GZ, Nordea Bank, PNC, Sumitomo, Titrisation et Finance Internationales  MULTISELLER PEER GROUP COMPARISON AS OF 12/31/2008
ABCP Conduits Body: Approximately $2.5 billion (10%) of all conduit assets are wrapped by a monoline insurer  Wrap exposure is diversified across 7 insurers   Wrap Exposure by Asset Class  Wrap Exposure by Insurer  ASSET WRAP EXPOSURE AS OF 12/31/2008
ABCP Conduits KEY METRICS AS OF 12/31/2008 (1)Excluding AMLF holdings at period end MTM= Mark-to market Q4 07 Q1 08 Q2 08 Q3 08 Q4 08 Q4 08       Asset Value Total Conduit Assets Outstanding  $28.8B $28.3B $28.4B $25.5B $23.9B - CPFF  - - - - $5.7B - AMLF Holdings  - - - $1.63B - - State Street Balance Sheet ABCP holdings1  $2M $292M $212M $6.19B $230M - Unrealized after-tax MTM gain/(loss)  $(530)M $(1,495)M $(1,627)M $(2,138)M $(3,558)M - Downgrades Credit Related 0 0 0 3 26 $918M  Insurer Related 0 28 125 18 45 $1.48B Credit watch Credit Related 1 2 1 22 28 $826M  Insurer Related 26 88 6 72 19 $309M Defaults  0 0 0 0 0 $0 CP funding spread to indices (bps)  11.6 26.4 10.2 24.4 (49.2) - Weighted average maturity of CP  20 days 16 days 20 days 15 days 25 days - Weighted average maturity of assets  4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years -
ABCP Conduits UNREALIZED GAIN/(LOSS) IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008 Investment   Ratings    Non-   Investment Grade Not Rated Face Value ($M) Face Value  (% Total) Unrealized After-tax MTM (Loss) ($M) # Pools AAA AA A BBB Mortgage-backed securities 53%  27% 8% 8% 4%  11,970 50.1 (2,091) 432 Asset-backed securities 48%   11% 12% 8% 3% 18% 7,616 31.9 (914) 183 Other 51%   7% 6% 11%  25% 4,300 18.0 (553) 95 TOTAL 51%   18% 9% 9% 3% 10% 23,886 100.0 (3,558) 710
ABCP Conduits UNREALIZED GAIN/(LOSS) IN THE ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES (ABS) IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008 Investment   Ratings     Not Rated Face Value ($M) Face Value  (% of Total) Unrealized After-tax MTM (Loss) ($M) # Pools Downgrades AAA AA A BBB Non-Investment Grade       Auto 26%  3% 15% 4% 4% 48% 2,717 35.7 (159) 59 4 Credit cards 34%   6% 26% 28% 4% 2% 1,955 25.7 (337) 70 5 Student loans 77%   21% 1%   1% 2,944 38.6 (418) 54 0 ABS TOTAL 48%   11% 12% 8% 3% 18% 7,616 100.0 (914) 183 9
ABCP Conduits STRESS COVERAGE: ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008  HCL = historic cumulative loss; Avg. CE = average credit enhancement; SFL = STTs stressed future losses; Coverage = CE/SFL  See Appendix for additional information
ABCP Conduits STRESS COVERAGE: ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008  HCL = historic cumulative loss; Avg. CE = average credit enhancement; SFL = STTs stressed future losses; Coverage = CE/SFL  See Appendix for additional information Autos: $2.7B HCL: 1.5% Avg. CE: 7.7% SFL: 2.8% (using worst vintage in 10 years) Coverage: 2.7x US Credit Cards: $1.7B  HCL: 6.7% (weighted avg. charge-offs) Avg. CE: 18.2% SFL: 10.0% (Industry projected peak charge-off) Coverage:  1.8x Non US Credit Cards: $0.3B HCL: 5.8% (weighted avg. charge-offs) Avg. CE: 16.1% SFL: 8.0% (high range expectation of ratings agencies) Coverage: 2.0x Govt. Student Loans: $2.4B HCL: 0.0% Avg. CE: 99.4% SFL: 12.0% (historic default rate with 0% recoveries) Coverage: 8.3x Private student loans: $0.5B HCL: 3.0%  Avg. CE: 60.7% (with insurance) SFL: 8.3% (assumes no insurance) Coverage: 7.3x
ABCP Conduits UNREALIZED GAIN/(LOSS) IN THE MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008 Investment  Ratings  Face Value ($M) Face Value  (% Total) Unrealized After-tax MTM (Loss) ($M) # Pools Downgrades AAA AA A BBB Non-Investment Grade      Australian RMBS 31% 66% 3%   3,028 25.3 (92) 179 0 European RMBS 80%  13% 6% 1%  3,878 32.4 (467) 61 2 US RMBS 56%  13% 4% 11% 16% 3,491 29.2 (1,209) 115 44 UK RMBS 21%  17% 28% 34%  1,573 13.1 (323) 77 0 TOTAL 53%  27% 8% 8% 4% 11,970 100.0 (2,091) 432 46
ABCP Conduits STRESS COVERAGE: MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES IN THE CONDUIT ASSETS AS OF 12/31/2008 HCL = historic cumulative loss; Avg. CE = average credit enhancement; SFL = STTs stressed future losses; Coverage = CE/SFL US RMBS (non-HELOC): $2.3B HCL: 0.8% Avg. CE: 32.2% SFL: 12.7% (1x S&P July 2008 revised default curve) Coverage: 2.5x US RMBS (HELOC): $1.2B HCL: 0.0% (with insurance) Avg. CE: 0.0% (overcollateralization) plus monoline insurance SFL: if all monolines fail except FSA and we have a 0% recovery, the estimated after-tax loss would be approximately $202M AUS RMBS: $3.0B HCL: 0.2% Avg. CE: 102% with benefit of Lenders Mortgage Insurance SFL: 1.4% (stress of 2x industry avg. cumulative losses) Coverage: 73x UK RMBS: $1.6B HCL: 0.5% Avg. CE: 5.5% SFL: 2.2% (stress CDR; 5 year WAL; 50% LGD) Coverage: 2.5x European RMBS: $3.9B HCL: 0.7% Avg. CE: 7.9% SFL: 2.2% (stress CDR; 5 year WAL; 50% LGD) Coverage 3.6x
   
ABCP Conduits Estimated pro-forma impact to State Street Corporations and State Street Bank and Trusts capital ratios had State Street Bank and Trust consolidated onto its balance sheet on December 31, 2008, all of the assets of the State Street-sponsored conduits at fair value (1) :      (1)   The estimated pro-forma impact to State Street Corporations and State Street Bank and Trusts capital ratios assumes: All four State Street-sponsored conduits, with combined assets of approximately $23.9 billion at December 31, 2008, are consolidated onto the balance sheet of State Street Bank and Trust on December 31, 2008; Assets of the conduits are recorded at fair value.   Note:   Capital ratios for the Corporation and the Bank exclude $6.1B of assets related to the Federal Reserve Boards AMLF  Program.  The Tangible Common Equity ratio also excludes the $51.7B of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits in  excess of required reserves, and is adjusted to exclude the effects of $560M for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax  deductible identifiable intangible assets  ESTIMATED PRO-FORMA IMPACT TO FINANCIAL RATIOS AS OF 12/31/2008 State Street Corporation State Street Bank & Trust  Preliminary Pro-forma Preliminary Pro-forma Ratios: 12/31/08 12/31/08 12/31/08 12/31/08 Tier 1 Leverage 7.74% 5.56% 7.54% 5.36% Tier 1 Capital 20.49% 14.73% 19.98% 14.22% Total Capital 21 .87% 16.11% 21 .54% 15.78% Tangible Total Equity / Tangible Assets 6.17% 2.53% na na Tangible Common Eq / Tangible Assets 4.46% 1.05% na na
ABCP Conduits State Street sponsors four ABCP conduits Conduit A (A1/P1) US assets, approx. $9.8 billion USD USD denominated ABCP Conduit B (A1/P1) US and European assets, approx. $10.2 billion USD USD, GBP and EUR denominated ABCP Conduit C (A1+) Australian assets, approx. $1.4 billion USD AUD denominated ABCP Conduit D (A1+/P1) Australian assets, approx. $2.5 billion USD AUD and USD (through USD funding leg) denominated ABCP  Total # Asset Pools: 710  Country of Asset Origin:  OVERVIEW
ABCP Conduits  US RMBS Statistics: WA FICO: 713 at origination WA LTV: 75.1% at origination  AUS RMBS Statistics: 97% Rated AA- or Better 99.4% insured with mortgage insurance  UK RMBS Statistics: Nearly all exposure is to owner-occupied homes with prime quality obligors  EUR RMBS Statistics: 80% AAA Rated 99.6% rated at least A    RMBS  Residential Mortgage Backed Securities WA  Weighted Average FICO  Credit Score from Fair Isaac Co. LTV  Loan-to-Value ratio   * Key components of Other include Trade Receivables, CLOs, Business/Commercial Loans, and other instruments.  No individual asset class represents more than 2% of total portfolio assets, except Trade Receivables at 2.4% and CLOs at 3.6%.  ASSET COMPOSITION
ABCP Conduits Conduit assets are originated through public security purchases and existing client relationships   All assets and associated State Street liquidity facilities are approved by State Streets Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), either through a formal review at the time of purchase or through inclusion on a list of pre-approved transactions/structures  A majority of assets are either explicitly rated or reviewed by rating agencies (Moodys, Standard & Poors)  Conduits subject to significant internal controls Dedicated surveillance team responsible for monthly monitoring of asset performance Robust liability management oversight, including economic and market updates, and weekly management meetings Dedicated administration team responsible for asset and liability administration, annual audits and accounting policy  ASSET SOURCING AND APPROVAL
CONDUIT OVERSIGHT AND APPROVAL ERM Oversight ERM establishes prudential limits and diversification requirements ERM monitors asset performance monthly through managements surveillance reporting  Key Credit Characteristics Strong overall asset quality supported by diversified pools of relatively homogenous financial obligations No material concentration risk among issuers or servicers No exposure to subprime mortgages and no exposure to asset-backed collateralized debt obligations (CDOs)  Rating Quality Transactions that carry external ratings are mapped to State Streets internal credit risk rating scale, unless an override is deemed appropriate by ERM Transactions without external ratings are rated internally using proprietary models that are subject to ERM oversight and compliance with State Streets Model Risk Policy and Guidelines      ABCP Conduits
KEY CREDIT CHARACTERISTICS  US RMBS Exposure to US RMBS totals $3.5BN, consisting entirely of senior positions in the capital structure  Collateral pools are comprised of mostly floating rate, Alt-A loans and Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs).  Underlying pool characteristics are strong for RMBS (WA FICO score of 713, and WA LTV of 75.1% at origination)  $2.1BN of this exposure (61%) represents super-senior positions in RMBS, with 2-5X the initial enhancement levels required to achieve an external rating of AAA/Aaa  $1.2BN in HELOC exposure (33%), all of which is insured by one of six bond insurers  The remaining $211.3MM of US RMBS exposure (6%) represents well-seasoned issues that exhibit strong underlying pool characteristics (WA FICO score of 719, and  WA LTV of 67% at origination)   ABCP Conduits
Exposure to AUS RMBS totals $3.0BN (US Equiv.), greater than 97% of which is externally rated AA- or better, and all of which is externally rated A or better  Collateral consists of diversified pools of prime obligors supported by private mortgage insurance policies (99.4%) that cover principal and interest shortfalls on defaulted / foreclosed loans  Greater than 94% of mortgage insurance providers have external ratings of AA- or better;  the balance are captive insurers, all of which are rated investment grade  Current weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 62% on RMBS portfolio  Current weighted average loan size of AUD$182,104 (US$127,946)   KEY CREDIT CHARACTERISTICS  AUS RMBS*  *Includes AUD-denominated assets AUD Rate of Exchange:  0.7026   ABCP Conduits
KEY CREDIT CHARACTERISTICS  UK RMBS* Exposure to UK RMBS totals $1.6BN, with 21% AAA, 17% AA, 28% A, and 34% BBB  Majority of exposure is to UK Master Trusts from AA rated top-tier issuers  Collateral consists of diversified pools of conforming loans to prime obligors with a range of current weighted average LTVs of 54% to 77%  Nearly all exposure is to owner occupied homes with prime quality obligors   * Includes GBP, EUR and USD-denominated assets GBP Rate of Exchange:  1.45933 EUR Rate of Exchange:  1.39715  ABCP Conduits
KEY CREDIT CHARACTERISTICS  EURO EAN RMBS* Body: Ex osure to Euro ean RMBS totals $3.9BN, with 80% AAA, 13% AA,  6% A, and 1% BBB  Collateral consists of diversified ools of rime mortgage loans  Sellers/Servicers are well-rated Euro ean banks   urchase of first Euro ean RMBS occurred in 2000  Assets originated across 7 jurisdictions   *Includes EUR-denominated assets EUR Rate of Exchange: 1.39715  ABC Conduits
KEY CREDIT CHARACTERISTICS  US STUDENT LOANS Exposure to US Student Loans totals $2.9BN  83%, or $2.4BN, are backed by Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) loans carrying at least a 97% guarantee by the US government  Of the $2.4BN FFELP loan transactions, $2.0BN are senior classes, with the vast majority rated AAA, while the remaining $0.4BN represents subordinated classes (of the $0.4BN, 96% rated at least AA and remaining 4% rated at least A)  17% or $0.5BN are backed by diversified pools of private student loans (for borrowers primarily attending 4-year schools or graduate schools)   ABCP Conduits
PROGRAM ASSET CHARACTERISTICS ABCP Conduits ($ in billions)  30-Sep-08 31-Dec-07  Program Assets by Collateral Type 31-Dec-08    $  % $  % $  % AUS RMBS $3.0 13% $3.6 14% $4.7 16% US RMBS $3.5 15% $3.6 14% $4.2 15% EUR RMBS $3.9 16% $4.0 16% $4.7 16% UK RMBS $1.6 7% $1.8 7% $2.3 8% Student Loans $2.9 12% $3.0 12% $3.3 11% Auto/Equipment Loans $2.7 11% $3.0 12% $2.8 10% Credit Cards $2.0 8% $2.0 8% $2.0 7% Other* $4.3 18% $4.5 17% $4.8 17%  $23.9 100% $25.5 100% $28.8 100%  * Key components of "Other" include Trade Receivables, CLOs, CDOs, Business/Commercial Loans, Municipal Obligations and Trust Preferred Securities. No individual asset class represents more than 2% of total portfolio assets, except Trade Receivables at 2.4% and CLOs at 3.6%. Program Assets by Rating 31-Dec-08 30-Sep-08 31-Dec-07  $  % $  % $  % AAA/Aaa $12.2 51% $13.7 53% $17.7 61% AA/Aa $4.4 18% $4.3 17% $4.5 16% A/A $2.1 9% $2.5 10% $2.3 8% BBB/Baa $2.0 9% $1.8 7% $1.5 5% BB/Ba $0.1 0% $0.2 1% $0.0 0% B/B $0.2 1% $0.1 1% $0.0 0% CCC/Caa $0.4 2% -  -  -- -  N R** $2.5 10% $2.9 11% $2.8 10%  $23.9 100% $25.5 100% $28.8 100% ** NR Assets in State Street Sponsored Conduits reflect structured transactions. These transactions have been reviewed by rating agencies and have been structured to maintain a P1 or similar conduit rating.
PROGRAM ASSET CHARACTERISTICS ABCP Conduits Program Assets by Asset Origin 31-Dec-08 30-Sep-08 31-Dec-07  $  % $  % $  % United States $11.1 46% $11.2 44% $12.2 42% Australia $4.3 17% $5.0 20% $6.1 21% Great Britain $2.0 8% $2.3 9% $2.9 10% Spain $1.7 7% $1.8 7% $1.9 7% Italy $1.7 7% $1.7 6% $1.9 7% Portugal $0.6 3% $0.6 2% $0.7 2% Germany $0.6 3% $0.7 3% $0.7 2% Netherlands $0.4 2% $0.4 2% $0.5 2% Greece $0.3 1% $0.3 1% $0.3 1% Belgium $0.2 1% $0.3 1% $0.3 1% France $0.2 1% $0.2 1% $0.2 1% Ireland $0.2 1% $0.2 1% $0.2 1% Other - Europe $0.5 2% $0.6 2% $0.7 2% Other - Asia $0.1 1% $0.2 1% $0.2 1%  $23.9 100% $25.5 100% $28.8 100%  **Percentage breakdowns for the earnings call slides have been slightly adjusted for rounding/totaling purposes.
ABCP Conduits APPENDIX
ABCP Conduits - Appendix The following is intended to provide a general overview of the terms, analysis and our monthly surveillance process used in the foregoing slides that discuss State Street Corporations (State Street) asset-backed commercial paper conduit program. As a general matter, the preceding slides summarize key performance statistics including credit enhancement and the stress analysis, as determined by State Street for each asset position. It should be noted that slides represent a point in time depiction and that results can fluctuate each month.  We place our securities into asset classes using industry standard nomenclature. Some of the asset classes detailed in the slides include government student loans (Govt. student loans), private student loans, credit cards, automobile and equipment (Auto/equipment), foreign residential mortgage-backed security (Foreign RMBS), collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), sub-prime mortgages (Sub-prime), Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC), agency mortgage-backed security (Agency MBS), non-agency mortgage-backed security, non-alternative A (Non-Agency MBS, Non-Alt-A), non-agency mortgage-backed security, alternative A (Non-Agency MBS, Alt-A), and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS).  As noted in the slides, State Streets asset-backed commercial paper conduit program contains asset-backed securities (ABS) and mortgage-backed securities (MBS). ABS represent a secured interest in a pool of assets, while MBS represent ownership of an undivided interest in a group of mortgages. In evaluating each asset position for potential stressed future losses (SFL), State Street considers a number of factors including historical cumulative loss (HCL), average credit enhancement (Avg. CE), and State Streets coverage amount (Coverage). The calculation of each of these factors is discussed in detail and with more specificity below.  SFL  Stressed future losses are State Streets estimate of potential future losses under a stressed economic scenario. We can not provide a generic calculation applicable across all asset classes as our estimates for each asset class are unique and in many cases are not a calculation, but a figure based upon our subjective assessment of relevant worst case historical performance. In the cases where we calculate a projected loss ourselves we describe the calculation in the slides. As SFL can be based upon historical worst case scenarios, SFL will vary among the asset classes, which we describe in our slides. Certain assumptions made by State Street in estimating SFL for various asset classes are set forth below.     INFORMATION CONCERNING OUR ASSET-BACKED COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT PROGRAM
Autos:  Based on the worst annual cumulative net loss vintage (2000) going back to 1997 using 80% Lehman Prime Auto Index and 20% Lehman Near Prime Auto Index  U.S. Credit Cards:  Based on the high end of industry projections for peak charge-offs in the current credit cycle. Most projections exceed the historical high of 7.5%.   Non-U.S. Credit Cards:  Based on Fitchs published expectations of stress performance for major European credit card master trusts.  Government Student Loans:  Based on the average Sallie Mae Non-consolidation FFELP vintages 2001-2006.  Private Student Loans:  Based on forecasted private student loan gross default rates of 16% with a recovery rate of approximately 50%.  U.S. RMBS:  Based on the July 2008 S&P cumulative Alt-A default rate curve.  U.S. RMBS-HELOC:  Main assumptions include  100% loss severity, projected loss rate of current 3-month average loss rate and projected payment rates at current 3-month average payment rates.  AUS RMBS:  Based on twice the average cumulative mortgage insurance claims frequency of 0.72%.  UK RMBS:  Based on twice the worst annual cumulative net loss experience in the UK (1989).  European RMBS:  Based on the UK RMBS SFL as a proxy of the European market as a whole.  ABCP Conduits - Appendix
ABCP Conduits - Appendix Body: HCL  Historical cumulative loss is determined by State Street based upon data obtained from third party providers.  Avg. CE  Credit enhancement is determined by State Street based upon data obtained from third party providers. CE can include excess spread for the most recent year, over-collateralization, cash reserves, and subordination.  Coverage  Coverage is calculated by dividing CE by SFL, which results in the coverage multiple. Coverage is provided as a measure of excess enhancement above our projected future losses under a stressed economic scenario.    As noted above and in the slides, in performing these calculations we collect and use information provided by third party providers. The information we used to create these slides included information from the latest surveillance reports that included data from servicer reports received during the most recent month. Third party sources use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining data, and different third parties may provide different data. It should be noted that certain securities report on a quarterly vs. monthly basis. For those securities, the most recent available information was used. It should be noted that industry information, rather than portfolio experience was used in certain instances where industry information resulted in a more conservative approach. State Street does not independently verify the data obtained from third party providers that is used in determining and estimating SFL, HCL, Avg. CE and Coverage and the information is subject to the risk of inaccuracy. As noted above and in the slides, State Streets estimates are based upon various subjective assumptions, and there is no assurance that these assumptions accurately predict maximum potential or likely future losses.

Exhibit 99.3
Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2008 January 20, 2009
Investment Portfolio MARKET EVENTS (1) At 12/31/08: After-Tax Unrealized market-to-market (MTM) Gain/(Loss) includes after-tax unrealized loss on securities available for sale of ($4,057)M, after-tax unrealized loss on securities held to maturity of ($869)M and after-tax unrealized loss remaining on securities transferred from available for sale to held to maturity of ($1,390)M.
Asset-backed securities (ABS) Mortgage-backed securities Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS)   $25 billion   $43 billion  $10 billion  Corporate bonds Municipals  Treasuries Agency debentures Agency mortgages Small Business Administration loans OECD Governments   Investment Portfolio  Government / Agency  Structured Securities  Unsecured Credit  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred.  OECD=Organization for Economic Co-operation and development  ASSETS: INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  $26 billion
Assets selected using rigorous credit process All (9,000+) securities are current as to principal and interest at 12/31/08 Diversified by asset class and geography Body: 89.3% AAA / AA rated at 12/31/08 Constructed to perform well through periods of economic weakness Unrealized after-tax AFS & HTM MTM = $(6.3)B(1) at 12/31/08   INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO DETAIL (PERIOD END 12/31/08) Title: Investment Portfolio  (1) At 12/31/08: After-Tax Unrealized MTM Gain/(Loss) includes after-tax unrealized loss on securities available for sale of ($4,057)M, after-tax unrealized loss on securities held to maturity of ($869)M and after-tax unrealized loss remaining on securities transferred from available for sale to held to maturity of ($1,390)M.  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred. $ in billions AAA AA A BBB BB< NR Total 12/31/04 $35.2 $0.7 $1.2 $0.1 - $0.5 $37.7  93.4% 1.9% 3.3% 0.3% - 1.1% 100.0% 12/31/07 $67.0 $4.9 $2.2 $0.8 - $0.8 $75.7  88.5% 6.5% 2.9% 1.1% - 1.0% 100.0% 12/31/08 $61.6 $8.8 $3.9 $2.9 $0.8 $0.8 $78.8  78.2% 11.1% 4.9% 3.7% 1.1% 1.0% 100.0%
Investment Portfolio   (1) Securities added to negative credit watch within the respective quarter, excluding downgrades. (2) Event occurred in respective quarter. (3) At 12/3108: After-Tax Unrealized MTM Gain/(Loss) includes after-tax unrealized loss on securities available for sale of ($4,057)M, after-tax unrealized loss on securities held to maturity of ($869)M and after-tax unrealized loss remaining on securities transferred from available for sale to held to maturity of ($1,390)M.  INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO (AT PERIOD END)  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred.  Q3 07 Q4 07 Q1 08 Q2 08 Q3 08 Q4 08 Q4 08 Asset Value Size of portfolio $77.9B $75.7B $75.4B $75.0B $78.0B $78.8B  Ratings 89.3% AAA 5.6% AA 88.5% AAA 6.5% AA 86.7% AAA 7.6% AA 84.4% AAA 8.7% AA 84.4% AAA 8.7% AA 78.2% AAA 11.1% AA  Unrealized after-tax MTM gain/(loss) $(513)M $(684)M $(1,940)M $(2,012)M $(3,282)M $(6,316)M(3)  Credit watch1 1 375 558 43 789 62 $866M Credit watch ex Munis1 1 13 7 43 32 21 $507M Downgrades2 16 9 442 632 49 935 $6,630M Downgrades ex Munis2 5 8 15 29 36 164 $5,004M Defaults2 0 0 0 0 0 0 $0
Investment Portfolio  HOLDINGS BY ASSET CLASS (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  (1) At 12/31/08: After-Tax Unrealized MTM Gain/(Loss) includes after-tax unrealized loss on securities available for sale of ($4,057)M, after-tax unrealized loss on securities held to maturity of ($869)M and after-tax unrealized loss remaining on securities transferred from available for sale to held to maturity of ($1,390)M.  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred.   Ratings      Book Value  ($B) Book Value (% Total) Unrealized After-tax  MTM Gain/(Loss) ($M)  Investment AAA AA A BBB BB < NR    # CUSIPS Government/Agency securities 100%      14.3 18.1 24 527 Asset-backed securities 79% 11% 4% 5% 1%  29.5 37.4 (3,989) 959 Mortgage-backed securities 88% 4% 4% 1% 3%  21.0 26.7 (1,462) 1,908 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 99% 1%     4.2 5.3 (501) 144 Corporate bonds 7% 8% 54% 30% 1%  2.6 3.3 (63) 201 Municipal bonds 10% 54% 21% 13%  2% 2.5 3.2 42 5,260 Clipper tax-exempt bonds/other 19% 64% 0% 1%  16% 4.7 6.0 (367) 540 TOTAL PORTFOLIO 78.2% 11.1% 4.9% 3.7% 1.1% 1.0% 78.8 100.0 (6,316)(1) 9,539
Investment Portfolio  ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES HOLDINGS (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred.  Consistent with our previously disclosed valuation methodology, State Street utilizes a variety of sources of information in determining fair values.  During the fourth quarter, the FFELP government guaranteed student loan price source changed to model pricing due to lack of market transactions.  Ratings      Book Value  ($B) Book Value (% Total) Unrealized After-tax  MTM Gain/(Loss) ($M)  Investment AAA AA A BBB BB < NR    # CUSIPS Student Loans 90% 9% 1%    9.8 33.2 (1,179) 170 Credit Cards 89% 2% 5% 4%   4.8 16.3 (614) 130 Auto/Equipment 74% 10% 7% 9%   1.3 4.4 (48) 81 Foreign RMBS 95% 3% 2%    5.5 18.6 (513) 95 CLOs 88% 2% 7% 3%   1.4 4.8 (226) 38 Sub-Prime 38% 32% 10% 17% 3%  5.8 19.7 (1,210) 377 HELOC 0% 15% 0% 78% 7%  0.3 1.0 (87) 16 Other 84% 12% 3% 1% 0% 0% 0.6 2.0 (112) 52 TOTAL ABS 79.0% 11.2% 3.9% 5.2% 0.7% 0.0% 29.5 100.0 (3,989) 959
Investment Portfolio  ASSET- BACKED SECURITIES COLLATERALIZED BY SUB-PRIME FIRST-LIEN MORTGAGES (AT PERIOD END)    (1) Securities added to negative credit watch within the respective quarter, excluding downgrades. (2) Event occurred in respective quarter.  Portfolio amounts are expressed at Book Value; Book Value includes the amortized cost of the transferred securities at the time they were transferred.  Q3 07  Q4 07 Q1 08 Q208 Q308 Q408 Q4 08 Asset Value Size of portfolio $6.6B $6.2B  $5.9B $5.7B $5.5B $5.8B  Ratings 73% AAA 27% AA 71% AAA 29% AA  70% AAA 30% AA 62% AAA 38% AA 57% AAA 34% AA, 5% A 3% BBB, 1% BB 38% AAA 32% AA, 10% A 17% BBB, 3% BB<  Credit enhancement 37.6% 39.8%  41.4% 42.6% 44.5% 42.7%  Unrealized MTMafter-tax gain/(loss) $(149)M $(314)M  $(574)M $(592)M $(801)M $(1,210)M  Credit watch1 0 3  0 3 12 3 $4.1M Downgrades2 0 0  3 12 19 75 $2,085M Defaults 0 0  0 0 0 0 $0
Investment Portfolio  HCL = historic cumulative loss; Avg. CE = average credit enhancement; CRE= Commercial Real Estate; SFL = STTs stressed future losses; Coverage = Avg. CE/SFL See Appendix for additional information  STRESS COVERAGE: ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES PORTFOLIO (PERIOD END 12/31/08) Govt. student loans: $9.0B HCL: < 0.1% Avg. CE: >100% - 98% govt. guarantee + 5.5% CE SFL: 12% - Historic default rate before government guarantees with 0% recoveries With >100% credit enhancement, no risk of loss Private student loans: $0.8B HCL: 1.7% - With insurance Avg. CE: 12.9% SFL: 8.3% - Assumes no insurance; industry/rating agency assumption Coverage 1.6x Credit cards: $4.8B HCL: 6.4% = wgtd. avg. charge-offs Avg. CE: 18.7% SFL: 10% - Industry projected peak charge-offs Coverage: 1.9x Auto/equipment: $1.3B HCL: 0.9% - Excluding wrapped deals Avg. CE: 15.8% - Excluding wrapped deals SFL: 2.5% - Using worst vintage in 10 years (2001) blended by portfolio weighting, excluding wrapped deals Coverage: 6.4x Foreign RMBS: $5.5B HCL: < 0.1% Avg. CE: 11.1% SFL: 2.2% - 2 times worst historic loss experience- UK 1989 Coverage: 5.1x CLO/CREs: $1.4B HCL: < 1.0% Avg. CE: 26.2% SFL: 4.5% - Double the average historic loan default rate of 3.5% with only half the long-term recovery rate of 70% Coverage: 5.8x Sub-Prime: $5.8B HCL: 4.83% Avg. CE: 42.70% - AAA 46.6%, AA 49.1% SFL: 21.40% - Roll rate analysis average across all vintages Coverage 2.0X HELOC: $0.3B HCL: 0% - With insurance Avg. CE: 2.7% overcollateralization plus monoline insurance SFL: If all monoline wrappers except FSA fail and defaults stay elevated in perpetuity, and we have 0% recoveries, after tax loss is $(25)M
Investment Portfolio  MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES HOLDINGS (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  Ratings      Book Value  ($B) Book Value (% Total) Unrealized After-tax  MTM Gain/(Loss) ($M)  Investment AAA AA A BBB BB < NR    # CUSIPS Agency MBS 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 11.6 46.0 24 1,530 Non-Agency MBS 75% 9% 8% 2% 6% 0% 9.4 37.3 (1,486) 378 CMBS 99% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 4.2 16.7 (501) 144 TOTAL MBS 90.4% 3.3% 3.1% 0.9% 2.3% 0.0% 25.2 100.0 (1,963) 2,052
Investment Portfolio  STRESS COVERAGE: MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES PORTFOLIO (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  HCL = historic cumulative loss; Avg. CE = average credit enhancement; SFL = STTs stressed future losses; Coverage = CE/SFL  See Appendix for additional information Agency MBS: $11.6B 100% AAA-backed primarily by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac & Ginnie Mae Securities No losses expected Non-Agency Prime MBS: $7.7B      HCL: 0.4% Avg. CE: 9.1% SFL: 3.2% - Roll rate analysis Coverage: 2.9X Alt-A: $1.7B HCL: 0.6% Avg. CE: 11.1% SFL: 5.8% - Roll rate analysis Coverage: 1.9X CMBS: $4.2B HCL: 0.2% Avg. CE: 24.4% SFL: 9% - Highest historic cumulative loss for any single CMBS deal Coverage: 2.7X
Investment Portfolio Philosophy: Assets are purchased based on an independent assessment of their underlying credit quality, not based on the insurance wrap provided  As a result, our exposure to wraps for protection is secondary and is relatively small   Diversified by monoline insurer  $2.5B of insurance covers 4,226 issues Municipal bonds: $1.921B (4,172 issues) Sub-prime asset-backed securities: $83M (26 issues) Home Equity Lines of Credit: $259M (16 issues)  If all securities were unwrapped, the 89.3% AAA/AA rating would become 88.2% AAA/AA rating*  INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOMONOLINE INSURANCE COVERAGE (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  * Estimate based on rating agency methodology
Investment Portfolio  INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOMONOLINE INSURANCE COVERAGE (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  * Estimate based on rating agency methodology    AAA AA A BBB BB< NR Total Credit quality 78.2% 11.1% 4.9% 3.7% 1.1% 1.0% 100% Credit quality unwrapped* 78.1% 10.1% 5.9% 3.6% 1.0% 1.3% 100%  AAA & AA Combined Credit quality 89.3% Credit quality unwrapped* 88.2%
Investment Portfolio  TOTAL MONOLINE EXPOSURE (PERIOD END 12/31/08)  BOOK VALUE Subprime  HELOC  Municipal Auto Loan  Student Loan  Total   Insurer Rating   ($mm) # ($mm) # ($mm) # ($mm) # ($mm) # ($mm) % # Moody S&P FSA $22 3 $38 2 $732 1,501 $158 8    $950 38% 1,514 Aa3 AAA/*- MBIA $16 9 $66 3 $437 858 $10 1 $3 1 $532 21% 872 Baa1 AA AMBAC $37 9 $128 7 $255 603 $61 2    $481 19% 621 Baa1 A FGIC $8 5 $27 4 $11 21      $46 2% 30 Caa1 CCC Syncora     $265 680      $265 11% 680 Caa1 B CIFG     $144 374      $144 6% 374 B3 B RADIAN     $3 6      $3 0% 6 A3/*- A/*- Assured     $74 129     $74 3% 129 Aa2 AAA Total $83 26 $259 16 $1,921 4,172 $229 11 $3 1 $2,495  4,226 * - On Rating Watch  # - Number of cusips
Investment Portfolio APPENDIX
Investment Portfolio - Appendix The following is intended to provide a general overview of the terms, analysis and our monthly surveillance process used in the foregoing slides that discuss State Street Corporations (State Street) investment portfolio. As a general matter, the preceding slides summarize key performance statistics including credit enhancement and the stress analysis, as determined by State Street for each asset position. It should be noted that slides represent a point in time depiction and that results can fluctuate each month.  We place our securities into asset classes using industry standard nomenclature. Some of the asset classes detailed in the slides include government student loans (Govt. student loans), private student loans, credit cards, automobile and equipment (Auto/equipment), foreign residential mortgage-backed security (Foreign RMBS), collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), sub-prime mortgages (Sub-prime), Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC), agency mortgage-backed security (Agency MBS), non-agency mortgage-backed security, non-alternative A (Non-Agency MBS, Non-Alt-A), non-agency mortgage-backed security, alternative A (Non-Agency MBS, Alt-A), and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS).  As noted in the slides, State Streets investment portfolio contains asset-backed securities (ABS) and mortgage-backed securities (MBS). ABS represent a secured interest in a pool of assets, while MBS represent ownership of an undivided interest in a group of mortgages. In evaluating each asset position for potential stressed future losses (SFL), State Street considers a number of factors including historical cumulative loss (HCL), average credit enhancement (Avg. CE), and State Streets coverage amount (Coverage). The calculation of each of these factors is discussed in detail and with more specificity below.  SFL  Stressed future losses are State Streets estimate of potential future losses under a stressed economic scenario. We can not provide a generic calculation applicable across all asset classes as our estimates for each asset class are unique and in many cases are not a calculation, but a figure based upon our subjective assessment of relevant worst case historical performance. In the cases where we calculate a projected loss ourselves we describe the calculation in the slides. As SFL can be based upon historical worst case scenarios, SFL will vary among the asset classes, which we describe in our slides. Certain assumptions made by State Street in estimating SFL for various asset classes are set forth below.  INFORMATION CONCERNING OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
Investment Portfolio - Appendix Government Student Loans:  Based on the average Sallie Mae Non-consolidation FFELP vintages 2001-2006.  Private Student Loans:  Based on forecasted private student loan gross default rates of 16% with a recovery rate of approximately 50%.  Credit Cards:  Based on the high end of industry projections for peak charge-offs in the current credit cycle. Most projections exceed the historical high of 7.5%.   Auto/Equipment:  Based on the worst annual cumulative net loss vintage (2001) going back to 1997 using 81% Barclays prime auto index, 18% Barclays near prime auto index, and 1% Barclays sub prime index, consistent with the split of the portfolios prime, near prime, and sub prime auto holdings after backing out deals wrapped by monoline insurers. This is combined with the worst experience of an agency international auto index on a 58% US, 42% non-US weighted basis.  Foreign RMBS:  Based on twice the worst annual cumulative net loss experience in the UK (1989).  CLOs:  Based on double the average annual speculative grade default rate of 3.5% with half of the long-term recovery rate on senior secured bank loans of 70%. The annual average default rate is from data covering security issuances from 1970-2005, and the average recover rate of 70% is from data covering issues from 1982-2005.  Subprime:  Calculated by applying projected loss assumptions to the remaining pool of mortgages based upon the stage within the delinquency pipeline, (i.e. current to foreclosure), to obtain a projected future gross loss. A 60% severity rate for 2006 and 2007 vintages then applied to obtain the stressed future net loss.  HELOC:  Main assumptions include  100% loss severity, projected loss rate of current 3-month average loss rate and projected payment rates at current 3-month average payment rates.
Agency MBS:  No losses are assumed due to implied (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) or explicit (Ginnie Mae) government guarantee.  Non-Agency MBS (Prime):  Calculated by applying projected loss assumptions to the remaining pool of mortgages based upon the stage within the delinquency pipeline, (i.e. current to foreclosure), to obtain a projected future gross loss. An interpolated severity based on current LTV and a future negative HPA assumption.   Non-Agency MBS (Alt-A):  Calculated by applying projected loss assumptions to the remaining pool of mortgages based upon the stage within the delinquency pipeline, (i.e. current to foreclosure), to obtain a projected future gross loss. An interpolated severity based on current LTV and a future negative HPA assumption.   CMBS:  Based on the worst historical cumulative loss ever experienced by any one CMBS securitized deal.  U.S. RMBS:  Based on the July 2008 S&P cumulative Alt-A default rate curve.  U.S. RMBS-HELOC:  Main assumptions include  100% loss severity, projected loss rate of current 3-month average loss rate and projected payment rates at current 3-month average payment rates.  AUS RMBS:  Based on twice the average cumulative mortgage insurance claims frequency of 0.72%.  UK RMBS:  Based on twice the worst annual cumulative net loss experience in the UK (1989).  European RMBS:  Based on the UK RMBS SFL as a proxy of the European market as a whole. Investment Portfolio - Appendix
   
Investment Portfolio - Appendix HCL  Historical cumulative loss is determined by State Street based upon data obtained from third party providers.  Avg. CE  Credit enhancement is determined by State Street based upon data obtained from third party providers. CE can include excess spread for the most recent year, over-collateralization, cash reserves, and subordination.  Coverage  Coverage is calculated by dividing CE by SFL, which results in the coverage multiple. Coverage is provided as a measure of excess enhancement above our projected future losses under a stressed economic scenario.   As noted above and in the slides, in performing these calculations we collect and use information provided by third party providers. The information we used to create these slides included information from the latest surveillance reports that included data from servicer reports received during the most recent month. Third party sources use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining data, and different third parties may provide different data. It should be noted that certain securities report on a quarterly vs. monthly basis. For those securities, the most recent available information was used. It should be noted that industry information, rather than portfolio experience was used in certain instances where industry information resulted in a more conservative approach. State Street does not independently verify the data obtained from third party providers that is used in determining and estimating SFL, HCL, Avg. CE and Coverage and the information is subject to the risk of inaccuracy. As noted above and in the slides, State Streets estimates are based upon various subjective assumptions, and there is no assurance that these assumptions accurately predict maximum potential or likely future losses.


