FILE:STT/STT-8K-20090521063143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
Common Stock Offering
On May 18, 2009, State Street Corporation ("State Street") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Common Stock Underwriting Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein, to issue and sell 51,282,051 shares of State Street's common stock in a public offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157882) and a related prospectus supplement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, State Street granted the underwriters an option exercisable for 30 days from the date of such prospectus supplement to purchase, at the public offering price less underwriting discounts and commissions, up to an additional 7,692,307 shares of State Street's common stock, which option the underwriters exercised in full on May 19, 2009.
State Street expects to receive net proceeds from the common stock offering of approximately $2.23 billion, after deducting estimated expenses and underwriting discounts and commissions.
The above description of the Common Stock Underwriting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Common Stock Underwriting Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to State Street, has issued an opinion to State Street, dated May 18, 2009, regarding the legality of the shares of common stock to be issued and sold in the common stock offering upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this current report on Form 8-K.
Senior Notes Offering
On May 19, 2009, State Street entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Senior Notes Underwriting Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein, for the issuance by State Street of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.30% senior notes due 2014 in a public offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157882) and a related prospectus supplement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
State Street expects to receive net proceeds from the senior notes offering of approximately $498 million, after deducting estimated expenses and underwriting discounts and commissions.
The above description of the Senior Notes Underwriting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Senior Notes Underwriting Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 1.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to State Street, has issued an opinion to State Street, dated May 19, 2009, regarding the legality of the senior notes to be issued and sold in the senior notes offering upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is filed as Exhibit 5.2 to this current report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
May 18, 2009
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated,
      As Representatives of the Several Underwriters
            named in Schedule I hereto
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
and
c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
1. . State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters listed in hereto (the ""), for whom Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are acting as representatives (the ""), to issue and sell to the several Underwriters 51,282,051 shares (the "") of its common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the ""), and, at the election of the Underwriters, up to 7,692,307 additional shares of Common Stock (the "" and together with the Firm Shares, the ""). The Shares are described in the Final Prospectus which is referred to below. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined, but that are defined in the Statutory Prospectus (as defined in Section 2(a)), have the meaning specified in the Statutory Prospectus.
Introductory
Company
Schedule I
Underwriters
Representatives
Firm Shares
Common Stock
Optional Shares
Shares
2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed with the Commission an automatic shelf registration statement as defined under Rule 405 of the Act (as defined below) on Form S-3 (No. 333-157882) on March 12, 2009, including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Common Stock under the Act, which became effective upon filing. The "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been then superseded or modified. The "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means, with respect to any registration statement, information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 6:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Shares means the time of the first contract of sale for the Shares.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Shares and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule II
 
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Shares in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, with respect to a particular time, the prospectus relating to the Shares that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any 430B Information or 430C Information with respect to such Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
As used herein, "" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange ("") is open for trading.
business day
NYSE
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b) The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package (as hereinafter defined) and the Final Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by an Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance.
 
(c) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Shares and (D) on each Closing Date, the Registration Statement (other than Form T-1 filings filed as exhibits thereto) conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on each Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Securities Act Requirements
(d) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, and (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
the Shares, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Shares to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
(iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Shares within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) under the Act.
Filing Fees
(e) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Shares and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(f) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated May 18, 2009, including the base prospectus, dated March 12, 2009 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
Schedule II
General Disclosure Package
(g) . No Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement. If, at any time prior to or as of each Closing Date and following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
(h) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package; and, since the most recent applicable dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt (other than (i) issuances of capital stock upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights issued under equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on April 6, 2009 and on the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) upon earn-outs of performance shares, (iii) upon repayment of long-term debt in accordance with its terms, (iv) upon conversions of convertible securities, and (v) issuances of capital stock under deferred stock compensation plans, restricted stock programs and saving-related purchase plans, in the case of (i) through (v) above, which were outstanding on the date of the latest balance sheet included or incorporated by reference into the General Disclosure Package, and (vi) repurchases of the Company's Common Stock in accordance with the Company's stock repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (""), or any development involving a prospective Material Adverse Effect, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
No Material Change in Business
Material Adverse Effect
(i). Each of the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or trust company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority, as the case may be, to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or trust company
Good Standing
Bank
 
for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
(j) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, and the Shares and all other outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and are, or (in the case of the Shares) on each Closing Date will be, validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus. Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Statutory Prospectus and the Final Prospectus, (i) no person has the right, contractual or otherwise, to cause the Company to issue or sell to it any shares of Common Stock or shares of any other capital stock or other equity interests of the Company, (ii) no person has any preemptive rights, resale rights, rights of first refusal or other rights to purchase any shares of Common Stock or shares of any other capital stock or other equity interests of the Company, (iii) no person has the right to act as a financial advisor to the Company in connection with the offer and sale of the Shares, and (iv) no person has the right, contractual or otherwise, to cause the Company to register under the Act any shares of Common Stock or shares of any other capital stock or other equity interests of the Company, or to include any such shares or interests in the Registration Statement or the offering contemplated thereby, whether as a result of the filing or effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the sale of the Shares as contemplated thereby or otherwise. Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or Final Prospectus, no person has the right to act as an underwriter to the Company in connection with the offer and sale of the Shares.
Capitalization
(k) . The (i) issue and sale of the Shares by the Company, (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company, and (iii) compliance with the provisions hereof and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated by the Company will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any security interest, lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to, any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or the Bank is a party or by which the Company or the Bank is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or the Bank is subject (except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) of the Company or the Bank or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or the Bank or any of their properties; and no
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions
 
consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such as have been, or will have been prior to each Closing Date, obtained under the Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Shares by the Underwriters.
(l) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(m) . Neither the Company nor the Bank is in violation of its organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
(n) . The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders" and "Certain ERISA Considerations," insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of matters of U.S. federal income tax law or the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and regulations or legal conclusions with respect thereto, are accurate, complete and fair in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure
(o) . Other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated legal or government actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
(p) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Shares, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
 
(q) . Ernst & Young, LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations.
Independence of Accountants
(r) . The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended; and the Company and the Bank are in compliance with, and conduct their respective businesses in conformity with, all applicable laws and governmental regulations governing bank holding companies, banks and subsidiaries of bank holding companies, respectively, except failures to so comply or be in conformity that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Bank Holding Company
(s) . Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, the Bank and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in material compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and all applicable Exchange Act rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Internal Controls are overseen by the Examining and Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90 days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, Sarbanes-Oxley or the Exchange Act, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
(t) . The Company has obtained for the benefit of the Underwriters the agreement (a ""), in the form set forth in hereto, of each of its directors and "officers" (within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Exchange Act), except for those directors listed on hereto.
Lock-up Agreement
Lock-up Agreement
Schedule IV
Schedule V
 
(u) . The Company has not received any notice from the NYSE regarding the pending or threatened delisting of its Common Stock from the NYSE.
NYSE Listing
(v) Each of the Company and the Bank, and, to the knowledge of the Company and the Bank, any of their respective officers, directors, agents, or employees, has not since December 31, 2003 materially violated, its participation in the offering will not materially violate, and it has instituted and maintains policies and/or procedures designed to ensure continued compliance with each of the following laws, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations: anti-bribery laws, including but not limited to, any law, rule, or regulation of any locality, including but not limited to any law, rule, or regulation promulgated to implement the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, signed December 17, 1997, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or any other law, rule or regulation of similar purpose and scope.
Anti-Bribery Laws.
(w) Each of the Company and the Bank has implemented a risk-based anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance program consistent with applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act Examination Manual and applicable law, including but not limited to the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and the laws, regulations and Executive Orders administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations.
Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions.
3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (a) the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the number of Firm Shares set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in hereto at a purchase price of $37.83 per share and (b) in the event and to the extent that the Underwriters shall exercise the election to purchase Optional Shares as provided below, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price per share set forth in this Section 3, that portion of the number of Optional Shares as to which such election shall have been exercised (to be adjusted so as to eliminate fractional shares) determined by multiplying such number of Optional Shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the maximum number of Optional Shares which such Underwriter is entitled to purchase as set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in hereto and the denominator of which is the maximum number of Optional Securities that all of the Underwriters are entitled to purchase hereunder.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Shares
Schedule I
Schedule I
The Company will deliver the Firm Shares to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same
 
day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:00 a.m., New York time, on May 22, 2009, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". The time and date for the payment and delivery of the Optional Shares, if not the First Closing Date, shall be made in the same manner and at the same office as the payment for the Firm Shares and is herein called the "", and each such time and date for delivery is herein called a "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Shares sold pursuant to the offering. The Shares to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the office of the Depository Trust Company ("") or its designated custodian at least 24 hours prior to each Closing Date.
First Closing Date
Second Closing Date
Closing Date
DTC
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Shares for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses
(b) . For so long as a prospectus relating to the Shares is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, the Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Shares in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
 
(c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Shares is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at the Company's expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) . For so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Shares, the Company will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of any annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), they are not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
(e) The Company will promptly from time to time take such action as the Representatives may reasonably request to qualify the Shares for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Shares; provided that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
 
(f) Prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the New York business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Underwriters written and electronic copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in New York City in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(g) . The Company will make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c)), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the Rules and Regulations (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158).
Rule 158
(h) During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the date 60 days after the date of the Final Prospectus (the initial ""), the Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, grant any option to purchase, make any short sale or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any securities of the Company that are substantially similar to the Shares, including but not limited to any options or warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock or any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, Common Stock or any such substantially similar securities (other than (i) pursuant to equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on April 6, 2009 or Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 or (ii) upon the exercise of an option or a warrant or the conversion or exchange of convertible or exchangeable securities outstanding as of the date of this Agreement), without the prior written consent of the Representatives.
Restrictions on Sales of the Shares.
Lock-Up Period
(i) The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the General Disclosure Package under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) The Company, upon request of any Underwriter, will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to such Underwriter an electronic version of the Company's trademarks, servicemarks and corporate logo for use on the website, if any, operated by such Underwriter for the purpose of facilitating the on-line offering of the Shares (the ""); provided, however, that the License shall be used solely for the purpose described above, is granted without any fee and may not be assigned or transferred.
Company License.
License
 
(l) The Company will pay or cause to be paid the following: (i) the costs, expenses, fees and taxes in connection with the registration, issue, sale and delivery of the Shares, including any stock or transfer taxes and stamp or similar duties, and the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of the Shares under the Act and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing any Agreement among Underwriters, this Agreement, any Blue Sky Memoranda, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Shares; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Shares for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(d) hereof, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky survey(s); (iv) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, any required review by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the Shares; (v) all expenses and listing fees in connection with the listing of the Shares on any securities exchange or qualification of the Shares for listing on the NYSE and any registration thereof under the Exchange Act; and (vi) the cost of printing certificates representing the Shares. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Shares by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
Payment of Expenses.
(m) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Shares.
Absence of Manipulation
6. . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Shares that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Shares on each Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on such Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened or shall be contemplated by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Filing of Prospectus.
(b) . The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. In rendering such opinion, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely, as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, upon the opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, delivered pursuant to Section 7(d), or the opinion of David C. Phelan, delivered pursuant to Section 7(c).
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(c) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(i) To the best of such counsel's knowledge and other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending, threatened or contemplated legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or
Litigation.
 
affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(ii) . The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto prior to such Closing Date (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel expresses no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations.
Compliance
(iii) . While the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of the date of the Final Prospectus or as of the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view); and (B) to such counsel's knowledge, there are no amendments to the Registration Statement required to be filed or any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus Supplement or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus Supplement which are not filed or incorporated by reference as described or required.
Disclosure
 
(d) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
(i) . The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has the corporate power and authority to carry on its business and to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby. The Bank is validly existing as a chartered trust company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has chartered trust company power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Good Standing of the Company and the Bank
(ii) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization
(iii) . The Shares have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered to the Underwriters against payment therefor as provided by this Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, and the issuance of such Shares will not be subject to any preemptive rights under the Articles of Organization or By-laws of the Company.
Issuances by the Company
(iv) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as is set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus. The capital stock of the Company conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Capitalization of the Company
(v) The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company do not and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (A) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the Articles of Organization, By-laws or any agreement or instrument listed on a schedule to such opinion or (B) violate or conflict with any United States federal law, Massachusetts state law or New York state law, rule or regulation that in such counsel's experience is normally applicable in transactions of the type contemplated by this Agreement, or any judgment, order or decree specifically naming the Company of which such counsel is aware.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts.
 
(vi) . Except as has been made or obtained under the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, no filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any United States federal, Massachusetts or New York governmental authority or agency is necessary in connection with the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement or for the issuance, sale and delivery of the Shares by the Company to the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement.
Consents
(vii) The statements set forth in the Final Prospectus under the caption "Underwriting", insofar as such statements summarize the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, are correct in all material respects; and the statements set forth in the Final Prospectus under the caption "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders", insofar as such statements constitute matters of law or legal conclusions, are correct in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure.
(viii) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Shares and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package or Final Prospectus, will not be an "investment company," as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
(ix) . While the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus (except to the extent expressly set forth in Section 7(d)(vii) hereof), subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) The Registration Statement as of the date of its filing with the Commission and the Final Prospectus, as of the date of such opinion (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view), appear on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; and (B) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances
Disclosure
 
under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of the date of the Final Prospectus or as of the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above).
(e) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and such Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations and substantially in the form of hereto (except that in the letter dated on such Closing Date, the specified date referred to in paragraph 4 of such letter shall be a date no more than three days prior to such Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
Schedule III
(f) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Shares; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Shares, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal, New York or Massachusetts state authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Shares or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Shares.
No Material Adverse Change
 
(g) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated such Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
(h) . The Representatives shall have received each of the signed Lock-up Agreements referred to in Section 2(t) hereof, and each such Lock-up Agreement shall be in full force and effect at the time of the purchase of the Shares.
Lock-up Agreements
(i) . The Shares shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject only to notice of issuance at or prior to the time of purchase.
Listing of the Shares
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably require. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
 
reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
(b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession figure appearing in the fourth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying
Actions against Parties; Notification
 
party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Shares or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to,
Contribution
 
among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Shares underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.
(e) . The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 8(d).
Miscellaneous
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase the Shares hereunder on a Closing Date and the aggregate number of the Shares that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total number of Shares that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Shares by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by such Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Shares that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on such Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate number of the Shares with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total aggregate number of the Shares that the applicable Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Shares by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement (or, with respect to the Second Closing Date, the obligations of the Underwriters to purchase and of the Company to sell the Optional Shares) will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used
Default of Underwriters
 
in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Shares. If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(l) and 8 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Shares are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Company, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Shares not so delivered, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(l) and 8 hereof; provided, however, that all parties shall only be responsible for their own out-of pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, if any Shares are not delivered by the Company as provided herein for any of the following reasons: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal or New York or Massachusetts State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war; or (iv) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, if any Shares have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004 and c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, as Representatives of the Several Underwriters, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at the address or facsimile number of the Company set forth in the Registration Statement, Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
 
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
(a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of the Shares and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b) . The price of the Shares set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arm's length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arm's Length Negotiations
(c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the process leading thereto and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
16.
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
None.
 
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
 
1. Nader F. Darehshori

Exhibit 1.2
EXECUTION COPY
May 19, 2009
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated,
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters
named in Schedule I hereto
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
and
c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
1. . State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters listed in hereto (the ""), for whom Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are acting as Representatives (the ""), to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $500,000,000 in principal amount of the Company's 4.30% Senior Notes due 2014 (the ""). The Securities will be issued under an indenture (the ), dated as of March 11, 2009, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). The Securities are described in the Final Prospectus, which is referred to below. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined, but that are defined, in the Statutory Prospectus (as defined in Section 2(a)), have the meaning specified in the Statutory Prospectus.
Introductory
Company
Schedule I
Underwriters
Representatives
Securities
"Indenture"
Trustee
2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed with the Commission an automatic shelf registration statement as defined under Rule 405 of the Act (as defined below) on Form S-3 (No. 333-157882) on March 12, 2009, including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Securities under the Act, which became effective upon filing. The "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been then superseded or modified. The "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule II
 
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, with respect to a particular time, the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any 430B Information or 430C Information with respect to such Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act
As used herein, "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York and Boston, Massachusetts are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
business day
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b) The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package (as hereinafter defined) and the Final Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by an Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance.
 
(c) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement (other than Form T-1 filings filed as exhibits thereto) conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Securities Act Requirements
(d) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, and (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be)
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
required under the Act, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
(iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) under the Act.
Filing Fees
(e) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(f) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated May 19, 2009, including the base prospectus, dated March 12, 2009 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
Schedule II
General Disclosure Package
 
(g) . No Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement. If, at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date and following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(h) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package; and, since the most recent applicable dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt (other than (i) issuances of capital stock upon (A) exercise of options and stock appreciation rights issued under equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on April 6, 2009 and on the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (B) earn-outs of performance shares, (C) repayment of long-term debt in accordance with its terms or (D) conversions of convertible securities, and (ii) issuances of capital stock under deferred stock compensation plans, restricted stock programs and saving-related purchase plans, in the case of (i) and (ii) above, which were outstanding on the date of the latest balance sheet included or incorporated by reference into the General Disclosure Package, and (iii) repurchases of the Company's common stock in accordance with the Company's stock repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (""), or any development involving a prospective Material Adverse Effect, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
No Material Change in Business
Material Adverse Effect
 
(i) . Each of the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or trust company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority, as the case may be, to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or trust company for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
Good Standing
Bank
(j) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, and the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and are validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable. Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, no person has the right to act as an underwriter to the Company in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities.
Capitalization
(k) The Securities have been duly and validly authorized by the Company, and, when issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and other general equity principles; and the Securities will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Securities.
(l) The Indenture has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; and the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Indenture.
(m) . The (i) issue and sale of the Securities by the Company, (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and (iii) compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Indenture and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated by the Company will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any security interest, lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, contract or other agreement or instrument to
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions
 
which the Company or the Bank is a party or by which the Company or the Bank is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or the Bank is subject (except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) of the Company or the Bank or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or the Bank or any of their properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Indenture, except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing Date, obtained under the Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(n) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(o) . Neither the Company nor the Bank is in violation of its organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
(p) . The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the caption "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Consequences" insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of matters of U.S. federal income tax law or legal conclusions with respect thereto, are accurate, complete and fair in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure
(q) . Other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated legal or government actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture or the Securities.
Litigation
 
(r) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
(s) . Ernst & Young, LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations.
Independence of Accountants
(t) . The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended; and the Company and the Bank are in compliance with, and conduct their respective businesses in conformity with, all applicable laws and governmental regulations governing bank holding companies, banks and subsidiaries of bank holding companies, respectively, except failures to so comply or be in conformity that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Bank Holding Company
(u) . Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, the Bank and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in material compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and all applicable Exchange Act rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Internal Controls are overseen by the Examining and Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90 days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, Sarbanes-Oxley or the Exchange Act, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
 
(v) Each of the Company and the Bank, and, to the knowledge of the Company and the Bank, any of their respective officers, directors, agents, or employees, has not since December 31, 2003 materially violated, its participation in the offering will not materially violate, and it has instituted and maintains policies and/or procedures designed to ensure continued compliance with each of the following laws, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations: anti-bribery laws, including but not limited to, any law, rule, or regulation of any locality, including but not limited to any law, rule, or regulation promulgated to implement the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, signed December 17, 1997, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or any other law, rule or regulation of similar purpose and scope.
Anti-Bribery Laws.
(w) Each of the Company and the Bank has implemented a risk-based anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance program consistent with applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act Examination Manual and applicable law, including but not limited to the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and the laws, regulations and Executive Orders administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations.
Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions.
3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (a) the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in hereto at a purchase price of 99.605% of the respective principal amount of Securities purchased by such Underwriter.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
Schedule I
The Company will deliver the Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:00 a.m., New York time, on May 22, 2009, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of all the Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Securities to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the office of the Depository Trust Company ("") or its designated custodian at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
DTC
 
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses
(b) . For so long as a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, the Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
(c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at the Company's expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
(d) . For so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities, the Company will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of any annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), they are not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
(e) The Company will promptly from time to time take such action as the Representatives may reasonably request to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities; provided that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
(f) Prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the New York business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Underwriters written and electronic copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in New York City in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(g) . The Company will make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c)), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the Rules and Regulations (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158).
Rule 158
 
(h) During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the business day after the date of the Closing Date, the Company shall not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, grant any option to purchase, make any short sale or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any debt securities of the Company or the Bank (other than (i) the Securities, (ii) commercial paper issued in the ordinary course of business, (iii) certificates of deposit issued in the ordinary course of business, (iv) debt securities issued in connection with overnight Federal Reserve Bank transactions and (v) debt securities issued with the prior written consent of the Representatives.
Restrictions on Sales of Debt Securities.
(i) The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the General Disclosure Package under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) The Company, upon request of any Underwriter, will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to such Underwriter an electronic version of the Company's trademarks, servicemarks and corporate logo for use on the website, if any, operated by such Underwriter for the purpose of facilitating the on-line offering of the Securities (the ""); provided, however, that the License shall be used solely for the purpose described above, is granted without any fee and may not be assigned or transferred.
Company License.
License
(l) The Company will pay or cause to be paid the following: (i) the costs, expenses, fees and taxes in connection with the registration, issue, sale and delivery of the Securities, including any transfer taxes and stamp or similar duties, and the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Act and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing any Agreement among Underwriters, this Agreement, any Blue Sky Memoranda, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(d) hereof, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky survey(s); (iv) any fees charged by securities rating agencies for rating the Securities; (v) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, any required review by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the Securities; (vi) the cost of preparing the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any of its respective agents, and the fees and
Payment of Expenses.
 
disbursements of counsel for the Trustee; and (viii) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder and under the Indenture which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Securities by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
(m) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
(b) . The Company will prepare, or cause to be prepared, a final term sheet relating to the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheet
 
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened or shall be contemplated by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Filing of Prospectus.
(b) . The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. In rendering such opinion, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely, as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, upon the opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, delivered pursuant to Section 7(d), or the opinion of David C. Phelan, delivered pursuant to Section 7(c).
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(c) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(i) To the best of such counsel's knowledge and other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending, threatened or contemplated legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Litigation.
 
(ii) . The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto prior to such Closing Date (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel expresses no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations.
Compliance
(iii) . While the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of the date of the Final Prospectus or as of the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view); and (B) to such counsel's knowledge, there are no amendments to the Registration Statement required to be filed or any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus Supplement or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus Supplement which are not filed or incorporated by reference as described or required.
Disclosure
 
(d) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
(i) The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has the corporate power and authority to carry on its business and to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby. The Bank is validly existing as a chartered trust company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has chartered trust company power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Good Standing of the Company and the Bank.
(ii) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization.
(iii) The Securities have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, when authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the purchasers thereof, the Securities will be legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms; such Securities will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Securities when issued will conform in all material respects to the description thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Issuances by the Company.
(iv) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms; and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the description thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Indenture.
(v) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as is set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus.
Capitalization of the Company
(vi) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Indenture by the Company do not and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (A) conflict
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts.
 
with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the Articles of Organization, By-laws or any agreement or instrument listed on a schedule to such opinion or (B) violate or conflict with any United States federal law, Massachusetts state law or New York state law, rule or regulation that in such counsel's experience is normally applicable in transactions of the type contemplated by this Agreement, or any judgment, order or decree specifically naming the Company of which such counsel is aware.
(vii) . Except as has been made or obtained under the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, no filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any United States federal, Massachusetts or New York governmental authority or agency is necessary in connection with the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Indenture or for the issuance, sale and delivery of the Securities by the Company to the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture.
Consents
(viii) (A) The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes" and "Description of the Debt Securities", insofar as such statements summarize the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, are correct, in all material respects; and (B) The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus under the caption "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Considerations", insofar as such statements constitute matters of law or legal conclusions, are correct in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure.
(ix) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package or Final Prospectus, will not be an "investment company," as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
(x) . While the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus (except to the extent expressly set forth in Section 7(d)(viii) hereof), subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) The Registration Statement as of the date of its filing with the Commission and the Final Prospectus, as of the date of such opinion (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as
Disclosure
 
to which such counsel expresses no view), appear on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; and (B) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of the date of the Final Prospectus or as of the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above).
(e) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and such Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations and substantially in the form of hereto (except that in the letter dated on such Closing Date, the specified date referred to in paragraph 4 of such letter shall be a date no more than three days prior to such Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
Schedule III
(f) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of
No Material Adverse Change
 
trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal, New York or Massachusetts state authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed; or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities.
(g) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably require. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
 
material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
(b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession figure appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative
Contribution
 
benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.
(e) . The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 8(d).
Miscellaneous
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase the Securities hereunder on a Closing Date and the aggregate number of the Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total number of Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate number of the Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total aggregate number of the Securities that the applicable Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the
Default of Underwriters
 
Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(l) and 8 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Company, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities not so delivered, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(l) and 8 hereof; provided, however, that all parties shall only be responsible for their own out-of pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, if any Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein for any of the following reasons: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal, New York or Massachusetts State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war; or (iv) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, if any Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004 and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 as Representatives of the Several Underwriters, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at the address or facsimile number of the Company set forth in the Registration Statement, Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
 
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
(a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriter in connection with the sale of the Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Indenture or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b) . The price of the Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arm's length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Indenture;
Arm's Length Negotiations
(c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the process leading thereto and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
 
16. .
Applicable Law
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
1. Final term sheet, dated May 19, 2009.
 
 
None.

Exhibit 5.1
May 18, 2009
State Street Corporation
One Lincoln Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
Re:
Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the public offering by State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company") of up to 58,974,358 shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value per share (the "Shares") pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157882) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 12, 2009 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the prospectus supplement dated May 18, 2009 ("the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus dated March 12, 2009 included in the Registration Statement (the "Base Prospectus").
The Shares are to be sold by the Company pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated May 18, 2009 (the "Underwriting Agreement") among the Company and Goldman Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriters").
We are acting as counsel for the Company in connection with the sale by the Company of the Shares. We have examined the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement. We have also examined and relied upon the Underwriting Agreement, minutes of meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors of the Company, and of Committees of the Board of Directors of the Company and records of actions of the Chairman of the Board pursuant to delegated authority from the Board of Directors as provided to us by the Company, stock record books of the Company as provided to us by the Company, the Articles of Organization and By-Laws of the Company, each as restated or amended to date, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary for purposes of rendering the opinions hereinafter set forth.
In our examination of the foregoing documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents and the legal competence of all signatories to such documents.
We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the state laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the federal laws of the United States of America.
Page 2
 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Shares have been duly authorized for issuance and, when the Shares are issued and paid for in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of these sources of law or subsequent legal or factual developments which might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on or about May 20, 2009, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein and in the Base Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Very truly yours,
 

Exhibit 5.2
May 19, 2009
State Street Corporation
One Lincoln Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.30% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Debt Securities"), pursuant to an underwriting agreement, dated May 19, 2009 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company and Goldman Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement. The Debt Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2009 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (the "Trustee").
As such counsel, we have assisted in the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") of the Company's prospectus supplement dated May 19, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus, dated March 12, 2009 (the "Base Prospectus"), each relating to the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157882) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Commission on March 12, 2009.
We have examined and relied upon corporate or other proceedings of the Company regarding (i) the authorization of the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the Underwriting Agreement and the issuance of the Debt Securities, (ii) the Registration Statement, (iii) the Base Prospectus, (iv) the Prospectus Supplement, (v) the Underwriting Agreement and (vi) the Indenture. We have also examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Company, such other agreements and instruments, certificates of public officials and such other documents, instruments and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed.
In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individual signatories, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of such original documents, and the completeness and accuracy of the corporate records of the Company provided to us by the Company.
 
Page 2
 
In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Indenture, (ii) the Indenture will be a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, and (iii) the Trustee shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. We have also assumed the due authentication of the Debt Securities by the Trustee, that there will not have occurred, prior to the date of issuance of the Debt Securities, any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of such Debt Securities and that at the time of the issuance and sale of the Debt Securities, the Board of Directors of the Company has not taken any action to rescind or otherwise reduce its prior authorization of the issuance of the Debt Securities.
We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the state laws of the State of New York, the state laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and the federal laws of the United States of America.
We have assumed for purposes of our opinions below that no authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or (to the extent the same is required under any agreement or document binding on it of which an addressee has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know) any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Company of the Indenture or the Debt Securities or, if any such authorization, approval, consent, action, notice or filing is required, it will have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and will be in full force and effect.
Our opinions below are qualified to the extent that they may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, usury, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally, (ii) duties and standards imposed on creditors and parties to contracts, including, without limitation, requirements of materiality, good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and (iii) general equitable principles. Furthermore, we express no opinion as to the availability of any equitable or specific remedy upon any breach of the Indenture or the Debt Securities, or to the successful assertion of any equitable defenses, inasmuch as the availability of such remedies or the success of any equitable defenses may be subject to the discretion of a court. We also express no opinion herein with respect to compliance by the Company with the securities or "blue sky" laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States or of any foreign jurisdiction. In addition, we express no opinion and make no statement herein with respect to the antifraud laws of any jurisdiction.
On the basis of, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that when the Debt Securities have been duly executed by the Company and duly authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and delivered to the purchasers thereof against payment of the consideration therefor duly approved by the Company, and subject to the final terms of the Debt Securities not resulting in a default under or a breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company and complying with any requirement or restriction imposed by any court or governmental entity having jurisdiction over the Company, the Debt Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company, in accordance with their terms.
 
Page 3
 
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions and is rendered as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of the foregoing sources of law or subsequent developments in law or changes in facts or circumstances that might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on or about May 20, 2009, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein and in the related Base Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Very truly yours,
 


