FILE:STT/STT-8K-20091026163219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer
On October 22, 2009, State Street Corporation announced that its Board of Directors approved a management succession plan under which State Street's Chief Executive Officer, Ronald E. Logue, age 64, will retire on March 1, 2010. Following his retirement, Mr. Logue will serve as non-executive Chairman of State Street's Board of Directors, and with re-election as a director at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, will continue to serve in that role until he retires as a director on January 1, 2011. State Street's current President and Chief Operating Officer, Joseph L. Hooley, age 52, will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer upon Mr. Logue's retirement as Chief Executive Officer. In connection with this announcement, State Street's Board of Directors also elected Mr. Hooley as a director effective October 22, 2009. Mr. Hooley joined State Street in 1986 and has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2008. From 2002 to April 2008, Mr. Hooley served as Executive Vice President and head of Investor Services and, in 2006, was appointed Vice Chairman and Global Head of Investment Servicing, Investment Research and Trading and Operations and Technology.
As non-executive Chairman of the Board, Mr. Logue will continue to maintain an office and administrative support at State Street's headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts. His annual fixed cash compensation will be reduced from a $1 million base salary to a $500,000 director fee, of which he will receive a pro rata amount for 2010. This fee will be eligible for deferral under State Street's Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors. In addition, he will retain the health screening, personal liability coverage, company car and driver/security specialist and residence security currently available to him and be eligible for the life insurance and matching charitable contributions available to other State Street directors. He will not receive any additional cash or stock retainers or meeting fees for his service as non-executive Chairman of the Board, and he will not be an employee of State Street. In addition, upon the commencement of his service as Chief Executive Officer on March 1, 2010, Mr. Hooley's annual base salary will increase from an annual rate of $775,000 to an annual rate of $1 million, of which he will receive a pro rata amount for 2010.
Change of Control Agreements
On October 22, 2009, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of State Street Corporation approved amendments, in consultation with State Street's management, to the employment agreements that become effective upon a change of control (as defined in the agreements) currently in place with State Street's executive officers, which are also referred to as change of control agreements, in order to implement changes designed to reduce the overall benefits available under those agreements. The Committee, in consultation with the Board, took this action in accordance with its previously disclosed continued review of the change of control agreements and in light of evolving practices in this area.
 
The overall structure of the change of control agreements with our executive officers was initially put in place in 1995 after consideration of appropriate measures to retain key employees in light of a hostile bid to acquire State Street. Under this program, each of our executive officers is a party to an agreement entitling the officer to specified change of control benefits. State Street has continued to provide these agreements because it believes that providing some protection in connection with a change of control is necessary to attract and retain high quality executives and to keep their attention on the business during the period leading up to a possible change of control.
As previously disclosed, the Committee has been conducting a review of the existing change of control agreements in place with its executive officers, including an evaluation of evolving market practices and anticipated trends with respect to these types of arrangements. State Street's management conducted a concurrent review in light of similar factors. Following these reviews, State Street's management recommended to the Committee a series of changes to the change of control agreements designed to reduce the overall benefits under the agreements. Throughout this process, the Committee discussed potential, and management's proposed, changes with management and evaluated them in light of its review. The Committee decided to implement a set of changes to the change of control agreements and, with the concurrence of management, the Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to amend the terms of the existing change of control agreements in a manner designed to reduce the overall benefits under the agreements. Therefore, on October 22, 2009, the Committee approved several amendments to the change of control agreements, including the agreements with Ronald E. Logue, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Joseph L. Hooley, President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph C. Antonellis, Vice Chairman; James S. Phalen, Executive Vice President; and Edward J. Resch, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The amendments to the agreements for these officers include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Retention Awards
On October 22, 2009, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of State Street Corporation also approved retention awards in the form of restricted stock and deferred stock to selected executive officers. In light of the planned CEO transition in March 2010, the awards are designed to encourage the long-term stability and continuity of the senior executive leadership team.
These awards have vesting and other provisions designed to promote retention of the services and skills of those executives. In particular, the award for Mr. Hooley will vest ratably over a period of five years (20% per year on the anniversary of the award), and the awards for Messrs. Antonellis, Resch and Phalen will vest ratably over a period of three years (33.3% per year on the anniversary of the award) and each executive officer is required to retain vested shares (net of tax withholding) for one year after the applicable vesting date. The awards will be forfeited, to the extent not then vested, if the executive retires or voluntarily terminates his employment. The awards continue to vest if the executive's employment is terminated by the company other than for cause. Among the restricted stock retention awards approved were awards of 214,225 shares to Mr. Hooley, 64,268 shares to Mr. Antonellis and 128,535 shares to Mr. Resch. Mr. Phalen received a deferred stock award of 107,113 shares.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2009


