FILE:STT/STT-8K-20100707073144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 7, 2010, State Street Corporation issued a news release announcing its expected second-quarter 2010 financial results, reflecting an after-tax charge of $251 million, including a related cash contribution to certain common and collective trust funds managed by State Street Global Advisors that engage in securities lending. A copy of that news release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
As announced on July 7, 2010, in the second quarter of 2010, State Street Corporation ("State Street" or the "Company") recorded an after-tax charge of $251 million in its consolidated statement of income, including a related cash contribution to certain common and collective trust funds managed by State Street Global Advisors ("SSgA") that engage in securities lending (the "SSgA Lending Funds"). The one-time $330 million cash contribution establishes a market-based net asset value per unit of the collateral pools held by the SSgA Lending Funds of $1.00 as of June 30, 2010. The cash contribution also enables SSgA to remove, as of August 2010, the redemption restrictions from the SSgA Lending Funds and mitigates potential liability concerns. Additionally, State Street accrued $9 million of related costs, which are included in the charge.
State Street's securities lending operations comprise two components: the SSgA Lending Funds, referenced above, with a broad range of investment objectives that are managed by SSgA; and an agency lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, the collateral pools for which are referred to as agency lending collateral pools. Redemption restrictions were instituted with respect to certain SSgA Lending Funds and agency lending collateral pools in the fall of 2008 during the disruption in the financial markets. State Street has identified potential inconsistencies with its implementation of those redemption restrictions applicable to certain agency lending collateral pools. The Company has also established a reserve of $75 million, reflected in the charge described above, to address these issues. State Street continues to cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission in its investigation, and to address civil litigation, with respect to State Street's securities lending programs.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
State Street Corporation's news release dated July 7, 2010, announcing its expected second-quarter 2010 financial results, as referenced above in Item 2.02, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, including the effects of the collateral pool contribution, actions and plans described herein, financial condition, results of operations and strategies, the financial and market outlook, governmental and regulatory initiatives and developments, and the business environment. Forward-looking statements are often, but not always, identified by such forward-looking terminology as "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target" and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this Report.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our subsequent SEC filings. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on Risk Factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report speak only as of the date hereof, July 7, 2010, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
By:  
/s/    James J. Malerba                                    
        Name: James J. Malerba
        Title: Executive Vice President,
                  Corporate Controller and
                  Chief Accounting Officer
Date: July 7, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
One Lincoln Street
Boston, MA 02111
United States of America
 
News Release
 
 
 
 
 State Street Corporation (NYSE:STT) announced today that it recorded a second quarter 2010 after-tax charge of $251 million, including a related cash contribution to certain common and collective trust funds managed by State Street Global Advisors ("SSgA") that engage in securities lending (the "SSgA lending funds"). The one-time $330 million cash contribution establishes a market-based net asset value ("NAV") per unit of the collateral pools held by the SSgA lending funds of $1.00 as of June 30, 2010. The cash contribution also enables SSgA to remove, as of August 2010, the redemption restrictions from the SSgA lending funds and mitigates potential liability concerns. Additionally, State Street accrued $9 million of related costs, which are included in the charge.
Boston  July 7, 2010
 
State Street's securities lending operations comprise two components: the SSgA lending funds, referenced above, with a broad range of investment objectives that are managed by SSgA; and an agency lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, the collateral pools for which are referred to as agency lending collateral pools. Redemption restrictions were instituted with respect to certain SSgA lending funds and agency lending collateral pools in the fall of 2008 during the disruption in the financial markets. State Street has identified potential inconsistencies with its implementation of those redemption restrictions applicable to certain agency lending collateral pools. The Company has also established a reserve of $75 million, reflected in the charge described above, to address these issues.
For its agency lending program clients, State Street today announced a plan to increase client access to liquidity. By the end of 2010, State Street intends to separate agency lending collateral pools, with total net assets of $51.6 billion and a weighted average NAV of $0.989 as of June 30, 2010, into two different pools. One pool will have complete liquidity, and the other pool, holding primarily longer-dated securities, will be subject to continued restrictions on redemptions.
Commenting on these actions, Joseph L. Hooley, State Street's president and chief executive officer, said, "Today's announcement demonstrates our commitment to resolving the challenges resulting from the market turmoil over the past several years."
Regarding the results for the second quarter of 2010, which will be reported on July 20, Hooley added, "Our strong operating-basis results are supported by momentum in our servicing fee revenue as well as improvement in trading services fee revenue. These expected results are consistent with the full-year operating-basis outlook we provided in the second quarter."
 
Second-Quarter 2010 Outlook
State Street expects to report revenue of $2.3 billion and earnings per share of $0.87 for the second quarter of 2010, which includes both the above-mentioned after-tax charge of $251 million, or $0.50 per share, and a one-time tax benefit of $180 million, or $0.36 per share, due to the restructuring of former non-US conduit assets.
In addition to presenting State Street's financial results in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management also presents results on an "operating basis" in order to highlight comparable financial trends and other characteristics with respect to State Street's ongoing business operations from period to period. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
On an operating basis, State Street expects to report second-quarter earnings per share of $0.93 on revenue of $2.2 billion. Operating-basis results include approximately $(48) million of net losses related to investment securities and a provision for credit losses of approximately $10 million and exclude the charge and one-time tax benefit as well as discount accretion of $172 million, merger and integration costs associated with acquisitions of $41 million, and expense of approximately $21 million due to a tax on bonus payments in the United Kingdom. Operating-basis revenue includes net interest revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.
Additional Information
State Street continues to cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission in its investigation, and to address civil litigation, with respect to State Street's securities lending programs.
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is one of the world's leading providers of financial services to institutional investors, including investment servicing, investment management, and investment research and trading. With $19 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.9 trillion in assets under management at March 31, 2010, State Street operates in 25 countries and more than 100 geographic markets worldwide. For more information, visit State Street at .
www.statestreet.com
 
Forward Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, including the effects of the collateral pool contribution, actions and plans described herein, financial condition, results of operations and strategies, the financial and market outlook, governmental and regulatory initiatives and developments, and the business environment. Forward-looking statements are often, but not always, identified by such forward-looking terminology as "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target" and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this news release.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to:
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our subsequent SEC filings. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on Risk Factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date hereof, July 7, 2010, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
 


