FILE:STT/STT-8K-20101116092533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 16, 2010 at 9:40 a.m. (EST), Joseph L. Hooley, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Corporation, will provide a presentation at the 2010 Banking and Financial Services Conference hosted by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The materials that Mr. Hooley will present are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, and are incorporated herein by reference. The presentation will be accessible on State Street's Investor Relations home page at . A recorded replay of the presentation will be available on the Investor Relations website beginning later that day. The webcast replay will be available for approximately two weeks.
www.statestreet.com/stockholder
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibits 99.1 or 99.2 or any of the information contained therein, be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 16, 2010
 
 


 
Exhibit 99.2
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The ratio of tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets, or TCE/RWA ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity (reduced by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes) by total risk-weighted assets (determined in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements). The TCE/RWA ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE/RWA ratio, our TCE/RWA ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital less non-common elements, including qualifying trust preferred securities, by total risk-weighted assets, which assets are calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. However, this ratio was used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its stress test administered to the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, the results of which were announced in May 2009. Management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
The table set forth below presents the calculations of State Street's ratios of tangible common equity to total tangible assets and to total risk-weighted assets, and its ratios of tier 1 common capital to total risk-weighted assets.
 
 
State Street prepares its consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
State Street presents financial information on an "operating" basis as well as a GAAP, or reported, basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The table set forth below presents a reconciliation of State Street's selected consolidated reported results to operating-basis results. Operating-basis results for 2009 have been adjusted to exclude discount accretion associated with the May 2009 consolidation of the asset-backed commercial paper conduits. Consequently, these operating-basis results may differ from previously disclosed operating-basis results for the same period.
 
 


