FILE:STT/STT-8K-20101130184634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 30, 2010, State Street Corporation announced a planned global multi-year program designed to enhance service excellence and innovation, deliver increased efficiencies in its operating model and position State Street for accelerated growth. The program includes operational and information technology enhancements and targeted cost initiatives, including a reduction in force and actions to lower occupancy costs.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company expects to record pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $160 million to $165 million (approximately $0.23 to $0.24 per diluted share after-tax), which relate primarily to the first targeted reduction in force and a portion of planned actions to lower occupancy costs. Approximately $105 million to $110 million of the fourth quarter 2010 restructuring charge is related to severance and benefit costs associated with the targeted reduction in force and approximately $55 million of the fourth quarter restructuring charge is related to office consolidation, lease termination and other real estate initiatives. The first reduction in force associated with the targeted cost initiative will be implemented in December 2010 and be substantially completed by the end of 2011, impacting approximately 1,400 employees or 5% of State Street's workforce.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements about State Street's planned global multi-year program designed to enhance service excellence and innovation, deliver increased efficiencies in its operating model and position State Street for accelerated growth, related reduction in force and real estate optimization initiatives and the costs associated with such related actions and initiatives. Forward-looking statements are often, but not always, identified by such forward-looking terminology as "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target" and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent SEC filings. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on Risk Factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K speak only as of the date hereof, November 30, 2010, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2010


