FILE:STT/STT-8K-20101209095415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2010, State Street Corporation issued a news release announcing that it has taken actions to strategically reposition its investment portfolio by selling investment securities of approximately $11 billion. The news release contains information regarding State Street's investment portfolio and regulatory capital position as of September 30, 2010, including information adjusted to reflect the estimated effects of the portfolio repositioning transaction. A copy of that news release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 9, 2010, State Street Corporation announced that it has taken actions to strategically reposition its investment portfolio by selling investment securities of approximately $11 billion. The primary asset classes and approximate amounts included in this transaction were U.S. non-agency mortgage-backed ($4.1 billion) and asset-backed securities ($3.7 billion), as well as non-U.S. mortgage-backed ($2.5 billion) and asset-backed securities ($0.6 billion).
This transaction accomplishes several strategic objectives for State Street, including:
 
 
 
The transaction will result in a pre-tax and after-tax loss of approximately $350 million, which will be recorded against earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010. The after-tax loss approximates the pre-tax loss due to the partial write-off of a deferred tax asset associated with certain of the investment securities sold. The concentration of AAA and AA ratings of the investment portfolio as of September 30, 2010, adjusted for the repositioning, would have been approximately 88% versus 82% prior to the repositioning.
 
(d) Exhibits.
State Street Corporation's news release dated December 9, 2010, announcing that it has taken actions to strategically reposition its investment portfolio, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements relating to our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, investment portfolio performance and strategies, the financial and market outlook, governmental and regulatory
initiatives and developments, and the business environment. Forward-looking statements are often, but not always, identified by such forward-looking terminology as "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target," and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
our ability to implement programs to transform and improve technology and business processes and create efficiencies, to develop constructive vendor, outsourcing and other third-party relationships and to promote other business model enhancement and cost savings initiatives; and increases in the volatility of our GAAP-basis and operating-basis earnings resulting from a change in our estimate of the charges or expenses necessary to execute the planned global multi-year program and the resulting savings from such program;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our subsequent SEC filings. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on risk factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after that date.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 9, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Boston, MA ... December 9, 2010
State Street (NYSE:STT) announced today that it has taken actions to strategically reposition its investment portfolio by selling investment securities of approximately $11 billion. The primary asset classes and approximate amounts included in this transaction were U.S. non-agency mortgage-backed ($4.1 billion) and asset-backed securities ($3.7 billion), as well as non-U.S. mortgage-backed ($2.5 billion) and asset-backed securities ($0.6 billion).
This transaction accomplishes several strategic objectives for State Street, including:
 
 
 
The transaction will result in a pre-tax and after-tax loss of approximately $350 million which will be recorded against earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010. The after-tax loss approximates the pre-tax loss due to the partial write-off of a deferred tax asset associated with certain of the investment securities sold. The $350 million loss will be excluded from State Street's operating-basis financial results for 2010. The concentration of AAA and AA ratings of the investment portfolio as of September 30, 2010, adjusted for the repositioning, would have been approximately 88% versus 82% prior to the repositioning.
The Company continues to expect full-year 2010 operating-basis earnings per share to be slightly above the adjusted operating-basis earnings per share recorded last year and confirms its previously disclosed outlook for 2010 operating-basis net interest margin to be slightly higher than 165 basis points. The repositioning transaction
 
included securities held prior to May 2009 by State Street's asset-backed commercial paper conduits. After giving effect to the transaction, State Street expects that from October 1, 2010 forward, the discount accretion from the remaining securities will aggregate approximately $1.3 billion, down from its previous estimate of $3.6 billion. This estimate assumes the remaining securities are held to their maturities. It also now expects to recognize about $175 million in discount accretion in 2011, down from $550 million as previously estimated. State Street expects the transaction to reduce its 2011 operating-basis net interest margin by approximately 5 to 10 basis points from the level that may have been achieved had the transaction not occurred. State Street's operating-basis net interest margin excludes discount accretion.
The table presented below provides State Street Corporation's specified capital ratios as of September 30, 2010 (1) on an actual (unaudited) basis, and (2) on a pro-forma basis (a) adjusted to reflect the estimated effect of the investment portfolio repositioning transaction, described above, on Basel 1 capital ratios calculated in accordance with regulatory requirements in effect on September 30, 2010, and (b) adjusted to reflect both the estimated effect of the above-described investment portfolio repositioning and Basel III requirements proposed in September 2010. The "adjusted" ratios described in the preceding sub-clause (b) reflect State Street's good-faith estimate of the effects of the applicable methodologies provided for in the Basel III requirements as State Street understands them in light of the published positions of the Basel Committee and the Federal Reserve Board. See "Additional Information" below for additional information concerning the specified capital ratios.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
This news release includes financial information presented on a GAAP basis as well as on an operating basis. Operating-basis financial information is a non-GAAP presentation. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
This news release also includes capital ratios in addition to, or adjusted from, those calculated in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. These include capital ratios based on tier 1 common capital and capital ratios adjusted to reflect the portfolio repositioning announced in this news release and further adjusted to also reflect our estimate of the application of the Basel III capital requirements. These non-regulatory and adjusted capital measures are non-GAAP financial measures. Based on the effects of the portfolio repositioning and potential effects of the proposed new Basel III capital requirements, management has evaluated and, with respect to the Basel III-adjusted ratios, will continue to evaluate the non-GAAP capital ratios presented in this news release. Management believes that the use of the non-GAAP capital ratios described in this news release aids an investor's understanding of State Street's capital position in light of recent developments and evolving capital requirements and therefore is of interest to investors. The total capital, tier 1 risk-based capital (or tier 1 capital) and tier 1 leverage ratios are capital ratios used regularly by bank regulatory authorities to
 
evaluate the Company's capital adequacy. The tier 1 risk-based common (or tier 1 common) ratio was used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its 2009 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. Management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios described in this news release, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
Non-GAAP financial measures (including capital ratios) should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
State Street Corporation (NYSE: STT) is the world's leading provider of financial services to institutional investors including investment servicing, investment management and investment research and trading. With $20.23 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.90 trillion in assets under management at September 30, 2010, State Street operates in 25 countries and more than 100 geographic markets and employs approximately 28,000 worldwide. For more information, visit State Street's web site at or call +1 877/639-7788 [NEWS STT] toll-free in the United States and Canada, or +1 678/999-4577 outside those countries.
www.statestreet.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements relating to our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, investment portfolio performance and strategies, the financial and market outlook, governmental and regulatory initiatives and developments, and the business environment. Forward-looking statements are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target," and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to December 9, 2010.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our subsequent SEC filings. We encourage investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on risk factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of the date hereof, December 9, 2010, and we do not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after that date.
 


