FILE:STT/STT-8K-20100519095220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are slides and related information to be presented at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders of State Street Corporation, which will be held at One Lincoln Street, 36
th
Floor, Boston, Massachusetts, on Wednesday, May 19, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. local time.
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibit 99.1 or Exhibit 99.2 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 19, 2010
 


EXHIBIT 99.2
We measure and compare certain financial information on a non-GAAP, or "operating" basis because we believe that such information supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to our normal ongoing business operations. We believe that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of our business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying performance and trends in addition to reported financial information, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP to operating-basis financial information.
 
 
The following table presents operating-basis earnings per for 2009, adjusted to exclude the effect of discount accretion associated with the May 2009 consolidation of the asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
 
 
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The table set forth below presents the calculation of State Street's ratio of tangible common equity to total tangible assets.
 


