FILE:STT/STT-8K-20100505123133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2010, at 12:30 p.m. (EDT), Joseph L. Hooley, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Corporation, and Edward J. Resch, State Street's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide a presentation to investors and analysts. The presentation slides that Messrs. Hooley and Resch will present are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference. The presentation will be accessible, in listen-only mode, on State Street's investor relations home page, at www.statestreet.com/stockholder, and via telephone, at +1 (706) 679-5594 (Conference ID # 69499889) and +1 (888) 391-4233 (Conference ID # 69499889). Recorded replays of the presentation will be available on the website and by telephone +1 (706) 645-9291 (Conference ID # 69499889) and +1 (800) 642-1687 (Conference ID # 69499889) beginning at 5:30 p.m. (EDT) that day. The telephone replay will be available for approximately two weeks following the presentation.
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibit 99.1 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2010
 
 
 

The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital less non-common elements, including qualifying trust preferred securities, by total risk-weighted assets, which assets are calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. However, this ratio was used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its stress test administered to the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, the results of which were announced in May 2009. Although we understand that the Federal Reserve does not intend to prospectively require calculation of the tier 1 common ratio, due to the recent timing of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
The table set forth below presents the calculations of State Street's ratios of tangible common equity to total tangible assets and tier 1 common capital to total risk-weighted assets.
 
We measure and compare certain financial information on a non-GAAP, or "operating" basis because we believe that such information supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to our normal ongoing business operations. We believe that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of our business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying performance and trends in addition to reported financial information, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP to operating-basis financial information.
 
 


