FILE:STT/STT-8K-20110524161735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At State Street Corporation's annual meeting of shareholders held on May 18, 2011, State Street's shareholders approved the 2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan. The plan had previously been approved by State Street's Board of Directors, and its effectiveness was subject to shareholder approval. The plan provides additional incentive to senior executives to achieve targeted levels of corporate financial and strategic performance and is designed to preserve the tax deductibility of awards to senior executives under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The provisions of the plan are described in the proxy statement for State Street's 2011 annual meeting under "Item 4Approval of 2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan," which description is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The description of the plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the plan, a copy of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 18, 2011, State Street Corporation held its annual meeting of shareholders for the following purposes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The shareholders voted to elect the thirteen director nominees, to approve the advisory proposal on executive compensation, to approve an annual frequency for future advisory proposals on executive compensation, to approve the 2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan and to ratify the selection of the independent registered public accounting firm. The shareholders voted against approval of the shareholder proposal relating to disclosure of certain political contributions.
The number of votes cast for or against and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, as applicable, in connection with each matter presented for shareholder consideration at the meeting, are set forth below:
Election of Directors
 
Other Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 24, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Executive Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors have approved and recommend for shareholder approval, the 2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan, or SEAIP, including the business criteria on which the performance goals are to be based. The SEAIP provides additional incentive to senior executives to achieve targeted levels of corporate financial and strategic performance. The SEAIP is intended as a successor plan to the 2006 Restated Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan previously approved by the shareholders in April 2006, which we refer to as the 2006 Plan. If approved, the provisions of the SEAIP would be in effect for awards beginning in 2012. If the SEAIP is not approved, no payments will be made under the SEAIP.
The SEAIP is being submitted for shareholder approval to preserve the tax deductibility of awards to senior executives under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 162(m) limits to $1 million per year the deductibility of compensation to the Chief Executive Officer and the next three most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Financial Officer. This limit does not apply to compensation defined in Section 162(m) as "qualified performance-based compensation." In order for awards under the SEAIP to constitute "qualified performance-based compensation," shareholders must approve the material terms of the SEAIP every five years. The material terms of the 2006 Plan were previously approved by shareholders in 2006. In order for awards under the SEAIP to be eligible to qualify as "qualified performance based compensation," shareholders are now being asked to approve the material terms of the SEAIP, including the business criteria on which the performance goals may be based and the maximum amount of awards payable to any participant for any year under the SEAIP. Approval by shareholders of the SEAIP and certification by the Executive Compensation Committee that targeted performance has been achieved are each a condition to the rights of senior executives to receive any benefits under the SEAIP.
The following is a brief description of the SEAIP. The complete text of the SEAIP is included as to this proxy statement.
Appendix A
Eligible Participants
The chief executive officer and other key executives designated by the Executive Compensation Committee may participate in the SEAIP. To receive an award with respect to a calendar year, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a participant must be an employee of State Street, or one of its subsidiaries, on December 31 of that year. Even if a participant is employed on December 31 of the performance year, the Committee may cause the participant's award, if any, to be forfeited if the participant ceases to be employed prior to the date awards are paid. State Street has 12 executives who are currently eligible to participate in the 2006 Plan and who would be eligible to participate in the SEAIP if it were now in effect.
Performance Goals
Performance goals with respect to an award must be pre-established by the Executive Compensation Committee not later than 90 days after the beginning of the performance year, or any other time as required by Section 162(m).
Corporate achievement of objectively determinable performance goals established by the Committee determines whether, and the extent to which, a participant earns his or her award. The goals are based on any or any combination of the following criteria, determined on a consolidated basis or on the basis of one or more divisions, subsidiaries or business units: earnings or earnings per share, return on equity, total stockholder return, revenue, market share, quality/service, organizational development, strategic initiatives, risk control, operating leverage or expense. The goals may be determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or on a non-GAAP basis.
No payments under a SEAIP award will be made unless the performance goals are met or exceeded. The Committee may provide, not later than the deadline for establishing performance goals, for objectively determinable adjustments to reflect events (for example, but without limitation, acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures or restructurings, expenses associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures or restructurings, amortization of purchased intangibles associated with acquisitions, impact (dilution and expenses) of securities issuances (debt or equity) to finance, or in contemplation of, acquisitions or ventures, merger and integration expenses, changes in accounting principles or interpretations, changes in tax law or financial regulatory law, impairment charges, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, charges for restructuring or rationalization programs (e.g., cost of workforce reductions, facilities or lease abandonments, asset impairments), one-time insurance claims payments, extraordinary and/or non-recurring items, litigation, or tax rate changes) occurring during the year that affect the applicable performance measure. In addition, performance measures determined on a per-share basis will automatically be adjusted to reflect stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends and similar changes to capitalization.
Awards
The Executive Compensation Committee may provide for varying levels of payment under an award depending on whether performance goals have been met or exceeded and may reduce, including to zero, amounts otherwise payable under an award. No more than $10,000,000 will be payable under an award to any one individual for any award year, the same limit as was set under the 2006 Plan. All payments will be made in cash, except that the Committee may provide that a portion of the payment be made in State Street common stock issued pursuant to State Street's equity incentive plan. Stock awards so granted will be governed by the equity incentive plan and, accordingly, will become vested or exercisable, to the extent not already vested, if there is a "change in control" event as defined in the equity incentive plan.
A participant may elect to have all or a portion of an award deferred under deferral rules established by the Committee and consistent with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. In addition, the Committee may provide that payment of all or a portion of an award payable in cash will be deferred under State Street's supplemental cash incentive plan, consistent with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Cash awards so deferred will be governed by the supplemental cash incentive plan and, accordingly, will become vested, to the extent not already vested, if there is a "change in control" event as defined in supplemental cash incentive plan.
All awards will be made only after certification by the Committee that the performance goals have been achieved.
Administration
The Executive Compensation Committee has complete discretion to construe and administer the SEAIP and to determine eligibility to participate, the performance goals, achievement of the performance goals, the amount of payment to be made under an award and to do everything else necessary to carry out the SEAIP.
Amendment and Termination
The Executive Compensation Committee may at any time amend the SEAIP or the awards under the SEAIP. The Committee may terminate the SEAIP at any time.

Exhibit 99.2
 
The purpose of the 2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to provide additional incentive and reward to senior executives of State Street Corporation (the "Company") to achieve targeted levels of corporate financial performance. The terms of the Plan set forth herein shall, if approved by the shareholders of the Company, apply to awards for the 2012 performance year and later years. Awards for the 2011 performance year and earlier years shall be governed by the terms of the 2006 restated Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan as in effect prior to effectiveness of this Plan.
 
Participants in the Plan for any year shall include the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and such other key executives as may be designated as participants for such year by the Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
The Committee shall annually grant awards to those persons who are participants for the year, and shall establish the goals (which may be specified as ranges) for such awards.
 
No payment under an award granted under the Plan shall be made unless the performance goals specified with respect to the award are met or exceeded. Performance goals with respect to an award must be pre-established by the Committee not later than ninety (90) days after the beginning of the year with respect to which the award is granted or by such other time as may be required in order to qualify the award under Section 162 (m)(4)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The Committee may provide, not later than the deadline for establishing the performance goals for a year, that one or more of the measures of performance applicable to an award or awards for such year will be adjusted in an objectively determinable manner to reflect events (for example, but without limitation, acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures or restructurings, expenses associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures or restructurings, amortization of purchased intangibles associated with acquisitions, impact (dilution and expenses) of securities issuances (debt or equity) to finance, or in contemplation of, acquisitions or ventures, merger and integration expenses, changes in accounting principles or interpretations, changes in tax law or financial regulatory law, impairment charges, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, charges for restructuring or rationalization programs (e.g., cost of workforce reductions, facilities or lease abandonments, asset impairments), one-time insurance claims payments, extraordinary and/ or non-recurring items, litigation, or tax rate changes, occurring during the year that affect the applicable performance measure. Except as the Committee may otherwise determine (not later than the deadline for establishing the performance goals for a year), any measure of performance expressed on a per-share basis shall automatically be adjusted to the extent necessary to reflect any stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends or similar changes to capitalization occurring during the year.
For purposes of the Plan, a "performance goal" means an objectively determinable target level of achievement based on any or any combination of the following criteria (determined on a consolidated basis or on the basis of one or more divisions, subsidiaries or business units) which may be determined on a U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or non-GAAP basis: earnings or earnings per share; return on equity; total stockholder return; revenue; market share; quality/service; organizational development; strategic initiatives (including acquisitions or dispositions); risk control; operating leverage; or expense.
Each award under the Plan shall be subject to the following terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall have complete discretion to construe and administer the Plan, to determine eligibility for awards, to determine performance goals, to determine whether or not any performance goal has been satisfied, to determine the amount of payment under any award, and otherwise to do all things necessary or appropriate to carry out the Plan. Actions by the Committee under the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
Nothing in the Plan or in any award shall entitle any participant to continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries, and the loss of benefits or potential benefits under an award shall in no event constitute an element of damages in any action brought against the Company or its subsidiaries.
The Committee may at any time amend the Plan or awards made under the Plan. The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time.


