FILE:STT/STT-8K-20110210121345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2011, at 12:30 p.m. (EST), Joseph L. Hooley, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Corporation, Edward J. Resch, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Scott F. Powers, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors, and James S. Phalen, State Street's Executive Vice President of Operations and Technology, will provide a presentation to investors and analysts. The presentation slides that Messrs. Hooley, Resch, Powers and Phalen will present are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference. The presentation will be accessible, in listen-only mode, on State Street's investor relations home page, at www.statestreet.com/stockholder, and via telephone, at +1 (706) 679-5594 (Conference ID # 36958577) and +1 (888) 391-4233 (Conference ID# 36958577). Recorded replays of the presentation will be available on the website and by telephone +1 (706) 645-9291 (Conference ID # 36958577) and +1 (800) 642-1687 (Conference ID# 36958577) beginning at 5:30 p.m. (EST) that day. The telephone replay will be available for approximately two weeks following the presentation.
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibit 99.1 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 10, 2011
 
 
 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This presentation includes financial information presented on a GAAP basis as well as on an operating basis. Operating-basis financial information is a non-GAAP presentation. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
This presentation also includes capital ratios in addition to, or adjusted from, those calculated in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. These include capital ratios based on tier 1 common capital and capital ratios adjusted to reflect our estimate of the application of the Basel III capital requirements. These non-regulatory and adjusted capital measures are non-GAAP financial measures. Management presently evaluates the non-GAAP capital ratios presented in this presentation to aid in its understanding of State Street's capital position under a variety of standards, including presently applicable and evolving regulatory requirements. Management believes that the use of the non-GAAP capital ratios described in this presentation similarly aids in an investor's understanding of State Street's capital position and therefore is of interest to investors.
In addition to the reconciliations described in the descriptions on the next slide of the capital ratios referenced in this presentation, the Appendix to this presentation also includes reconciliations of the following other non-GAAP financial measures referenced in this presentation: operating-basis results to GAAP-basis results and Basel III-adjusted capital ratios to capital ratios calculated under presently applicable requirements.
Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP and capital ratios determined in accordance with presently applicable regulatory requirements.
 
Capital Ratios
The total capital, the tier 1 capital, and the tier 1 leverage ratios are capital ratios used regularly by bank regulatory authorities to evaluate State Street's capital adequacy. The tier 1 common ratio is sometimes used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its supervisory capital assessment programs. The TCE ratio is another capital ratio management believes provides additional context for understanding and assessing State Street's capital adequacy.
, as applicable, are each calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements.
The total capital, the tier 1 risk-based capital, or tier 1 capital, and tier 1 leverage ratios
is calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 capital less non-common elements including qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries and qualifying trust preferred securities, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, which assets are calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. Management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios described in this presentation, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors. A reconciliation with respect to tier 1 common capital as of December 31, 2010 is provided in the Appendix.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio
is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations with respect to the calculation of the TCE ratio as of December 31, 2010 are provided in the Appendix.
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio,
 
State Street prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
State Street also presents certain financial information on an "operating" basis as well as a GAAP, or reported, basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital, which is calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements, less non-common elements, including qualifying trust preferred securities, by total risk-weighted assets, which assets are also calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. However, this ratio has been used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its evaluation of the capital adequacy of certain large U.S. bank holding companies. In addition, management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
The table set forth below presents the calculations of State Street's ratios of tangible common equity to total tangible assets and tier 1 common capital to total risk-weighted assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


