FILE:STT/STT-8K-20110518094859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are slides and related information to be presented at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders of State Street Corporation, which will be held at One Lincoln Street, 36
th
Floor, Boston, Massachusetts, on Wednesday, May 18
th
, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. local time.
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibit 99.1 or Exhibit 99.2 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 18, 2011
 
 
 


The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital, which is calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements, less non-common elements, including preferred stock and qualifying trust preferred securities, by total risk-weighted assets, which assets are also calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. However, this ratio has been used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its evaluation of the capital adequacy of certain large U.S. bank holding companies. In addition, management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
The table set forth below presents the calculation of State Street's ratio of tier 1 common capital to total risk-weighted assets.
 
State Street prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. State Street also presents certain financial information on an "operating" basis as well as a GAAP, or reported, basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
State Street prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. State Street also presents certain financial information on an "operating" basis as well as a GAAP, or reported, basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
State Street prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. State Street also presents certain financial information on an "operating" basis as well as a GAAP, or reported, basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 


