FILE:STT/STT-8K-20111115092926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 15, 2011 at 9:50 a.m. (EST), Joseph L. Hooley, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Corporation, will provide a presentation at the 2011 Banking and Financial Services Conference hosted by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The slides that Mr. Hooley will present are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, and are incorporated herein by reference. The presentation will be accessible on State Street's Investor Relations home page at . A recorded replay of the presentation will be available on the Investor Relations website beginning later that day. The webcast replay will be available for approximately two weeks.
www.statestreet.com/stockholder
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibits 99.1 or 99.2 or any of the information contained therein, be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 15, 2011
 


Exhibit 99.2
State Street prepares its consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In addition, State Street presents financial information on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as "operating" basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables presented below reconcile financial information prepared on an operating basis to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
State Street prepares its consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In addition, State Street presents financial information on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as "operating" basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables presented below reconcile financial information prepared on an operating basis to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there in no authoritative requirement to caluclate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 common ratio is calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 capital (calculated in accordance with currently applicable bank regulatory requirements) less non-common elements including qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries and qualifying trust preferred securities (tier 1 common capital), by (b) total risk-weighted assets, also calculated in accordance with currently applicable bank regulatory requirements.
 
The table set forth below presents the calculations of State Street's ratios of tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, tier 1 common and tier 1 leverage capital, prepared in accordance with current bank regulatory requirements, and the same ratios prepared in accordance with the proposed requirements of Basel III as those proposed requirements are currently understood.
 
 
 
 
 
 


