FILE:STT/STT-8K-20120522130420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________________
FORM 8-K
______________________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 16, 2012
______________________
State Street Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________________
______________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
At State Street Corporation's annual meeting of shareholders held on May 16, 2012, State Street's shareholders approved the amended and restated 2006 equity incentive plan. The purpose of the plan is to advance State Street's interests by providing for the grant to plan participants of equity-based awards. The amended and restated plan, among other things, increases by 15.5 million the number of shares of State Street's common stock that may be delivered in satisfaction of awards under the plan. The amended and restated plan had previously been approved by State Street's board of directors, and its effectiveness was subject to shareholder approval.
The provisions of the amended and restated plan are described in the proxy statement for State Street's 2012 annual meeting under Item 3-Approval of Amended and Restated 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, which description is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The description of the amended and restated plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the plan, a copy of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
On May 16, 2012, State Street Corporation held its annual meeting of shareholders for the following purposes:
The shareholders voted to elect the twelve director nominees, to approve the advisory proposal on executive compensation, to approve the amended and restated 2006 equity incentive plan and to ratify the selection of the independent registered public accounting firm.
The number of votes cast for or against and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, as applicable, in connection with each matter presented for shareholder consideration at the meeting, are set forth below:
Election of Directors
Other Matters
* - Not applicable
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
ITEM 3 - APPROVAL OF AMENDED AND RESTATED 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
The Board of Directors unanimously recommends that you vote
FOR
this proposal (Item 3 on your proxy card)
The Board of Directors recommends that shareholders approve the Board's proposal to amend and restate our 2006 equity incentive plan to increase by 15.5 million the maximum number of shares of our common stock that may be delivered in satisfaction of awards under the plan and to make the other updates described below. Unless contrary instructions are given, shares represented by proxies solicited by the Board will be voted for the approval of the amended and restated 2006 equity incentive plan.
In February 2012, the Board approved, subject to shareholder approval, the amended and restated 2006 equity incentive plan. The purpose of the plan is to advance State Street's interests providing for the grant to plan participants of stock-based awards. We are asking our shareholders to approve the amended and restated plan to increase the maximum number of shares available under the plan and to make other updating amendments detailed in the description below. The plan was first approved by shareholders in 2006, with 20 million shares, plus up to 8 million shares derived from our prior stock plans, available for delivery in satisfaction of awards under the plan. The plan was amended by our shareholders in 2009 to add 17 million shares for delivery in satisfaction of awards granted under the plan and to make additional updating amendments. As of March 1, 2012, we had delivered 16,207,484 shares, with an additional 25,031,518 shares subject to outstanding awards or related restrictions under the plan.
Summary of Proposed Amendments
The material changes implemented by the proposed amendment and restatement of the 2006 equity incentive plan are as follows:
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans at March 1, 2012
As indicated above, at March 1, 2012 we had a total of 25,031,518 shares, subject to outstanding awards or related restrictions under the 2006 equity incentive plan. The following table sets forth the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding awards and available for future grant under all State Street equity compensation plans (including the 2006 equity incentive plan) as of March 1, 2012, as well as the total number of shares of our common stock that were outstanding as of that date. The table does not include the additional shares that are the subject of the proposed amendment and restatement of the 2006 equity incentive plan being presented for shareholder approval at the annual meeting.
 
For additional information concerning our securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at December 31, 2011, see below under the heading - Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans at December 31,
2011.
Description of the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as Proposed to be Amended and Restated
The following is a summary of the material features of the amended and restated 2006 equity incentive plan, which summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the entire plan. The summary includes the amendments identified above under - Summary of Proposed Amendments. A copy of the entire plan is attached as
Appendix A
to this proxy statement.
The purpose of the plan is to advance State Street's interests by providing for the grant to participants of awards based on State Street's common stock, as more fully described below. The amendment and restatement of the plan will become effective on the date of its approval by the shareholders. The plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of such shareholder approval, except that awards made prior to termination may continue in accordance with their terms.
Administration.
A committee of the Board, currently the Executive Compensation Committee, will administer the plan. The term administrator is used in this proxy statement to refer to the person (the Executive Compensation Committee or other committee, and their delegates) charged with administering the plan. The administrator has full authority to determine who will receive awards and to determine the types of awards to be granted as well as the amounts, terms, and conditions of any awards. Awards may be in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, or SARs, restricted or unrestricted stock, stock units or performance awards or other awards that are convertible into or otherwise based on State Street's common stock. The administrator has the right to determine any questions that may arise regarding the interpretation and application of the provisions of the plan and to make, administer, and interpret such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or advisable. Determinations of the administrator made under the plan are conclusive and bind all parties.
Limits on Shares Deliverable under the Plan; Limits on Awards.
The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be delivered in satisfaction of awards made under the plan is 52.5 million plus the number (not to exceed 8 million) of shares subject to awards outstanding under State Street's 1997 equity incentive plan that are either forfeited (in the case of restricted stock) or never delivered (for example, because an option expires unexercised) on or after April 19, 2006 (the date the 2006 equity incentive plan was approved by our shareholders and became effective). Shares withheld to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding requirements, restricted stock that is forfeited, and shares subject to an award that is exercised or satisfied, or that terminates or expires, without the delivery of the shares do not reduce the maximum number of shares available for delivery under the plan. The maximum number of shares of common stock for which stock options may be granted to any person in any calendar year and the maximum number of shares of common stock subject to SARs granted to any person in any calendar year is in each case 2 million. The maximum number of shares of common stock subject to other awards granted to any person in any calendar year is 2 million. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other change in our capital structure, the administrator will make appropriate adjustments to the limits described above and will also make appropriate adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock or securities subject to awards, any exercise prices relating to awards and any other provisions of awards affected by the change. The administrator may also make similar adjustments to take into account other distributions to shareholders or any other event, if the administrator determines that adjustments are appropriate to avoid distortion in the operation of the plan and to preserve the value of awards.
The closing price of State Street common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 2012, was $42.42 per share.
Eligibility.
Participation is limited to those key employees and directors, as well as consultants and advisors, who in the administrator's opinion are in a position to make a significant contribution to the success of State Street and its subsidiaries and who are selected by the administrator to receive an award. As of March 5, 2012, the group of persons from which the administrator may select participants consisted of approximately 8,800 individuals.
Stock Options
. The administrator may from time to time award options to any participant subject to the limitations described above. Stock options give the holder the right to purchase shares of common stock within a specified period of time at a specified price, not less than the fair market value of the common stock at the time of grant. Stock options granted under the plan may not be repriced other than in accordance with the applicable stockholder approval requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Two types of stock options may be granted under the plan: incentive stock options, or ISOs, which are subject to special tax treatment as described below, and nonstatutory options, or NSOs. Eligibility for ISOs is limited to employees of State Street and its corporate subsidiaries.
The expiration date of an ISO cannot be more than ten years after the date of the original grant. In the case of NSOs, the expiration date is determined in the discretion of the administrator. The administrator also determines all other terms and conditions related to the exercise of an option, including the time at which options may be exercised and conditions related to the exercise of options.
Stock Appreciation Rights.
The administrator may grant SARs under the plan. A SAR entitles the holder upon exercise to receive an amount, delivered in the form of shares of common stock, determined by reference to appreciation in the value of a share of common stock. The value from which appreciation is measured in the case of a SAR may not be less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. No SAR, once granted, may be repriced other than in accordance with the applicable stockholder approval requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Awards; Stock Units.
The plan provides for awards of nontransferable shares of restricted common stock, as well as unrestricted shares of common stock. Awards of restricted stock and unrestricted stock may be made in exchange for past services or other lawful consideration. Generally, awards of restricted stock are subject to the requirement that the shares be forfeited or resold to State Street unless specified conditions are met. Subject to these restrictions, conditions and forfeiture provisions, any recipient of an award of restricted stock will have all the rights of a State Street shareholder, including the right to vote the shares and to receive dividends. Other awards under the plan may also be settled with restricted stock. The plan also provides for stock units, including restricted stock units, entitling the recipient to receive shares of common stock (or cash measured by the value of the common stock) in the future on such conditions as the administrator may specify.
Performance Awards.
The administrator may also subject awards otherwise available under the plan to the satisfaction of specified performance criteria. The performance criteria used in connection with a particular performance award will be determined by the administrator. In the case of performance awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, the administrator will use one or more objectively determinable measures of performance relating to any or any combination of the following (measured either absolutely or by reference to an index or indices and determined either on a consolidated basis or, as the context permits, on a divisional, subsidiary, line of business, project or geographical basis or in combinations thereof): sales; revenue; assets; expenses; expense control; earnings before or after deduction for all or any portion of interest, taxes, depreciation, or amortization, whether or not on a continuing operations or an aggregate or per share basis; return on equity, investment, capital or assets; capital or capital ratios; one or more operating ratios; operating leverage; borrowing levels, leverage ratios or credit rating; market share; capital expenditures; cash flow; stock price; shareholder return; sales of particular products or services; customer acquisition or retention; acquisitions and divestitures (in whole or in part); joint ventures and strategic alliances; spin-offs, split-ups and the like; reorganizations; or recapitalizations, restructurings, financings (issuance of debt or equity) or refinancings. A performance criterion and any targets with respect thereto determined by the administrator need not be based upon an increase, a positive or improved result or avoidance of loss. To the extent consistent with the requirements for satisfying the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the administrator may provide in the case of any award intended to qualify for such exception that one or more of the performance criteria applicable to such award will be adjusted in an objectively determinable manner to reflect events (for example, but without limitation, acquisitions or dispositions, changes in accounting principles or interpretations, impairment charges) occurring during the performance period that affect the applicable performance criterion or criteria. No performance award may be granted after State Street's first meeting of shareholders held in 2017 until the listed performance measures (as originally approved or as subsequently amended) have been resubmitted to and reapproved by State Street's shareholders in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, unless such grant is made contingent upon such approval.
Plan Benefits.
The future benefits or amounts that would be received under the plan are discretionary and are therefore generally not determinable at this time. The following individuals and groups of individuals currently serving in office have received the following awards under the plan, stated in aggregate number of shares of common stock underlying options/SARs, performance based awards and other awards, since its inception in 2006 and as subsequently amended by shareholders in 2009: Joseph L. Hooley, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, 349,000 options/SARs and 1,013,766 other awards; Edward J. Resch, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 226,373 options/SARs and 596,350 other awards; Joseph C. Antonellis, Vice Chairman, 277,545 options/SARs and 576,711 other awards; James S. Phalen, Executive Vice President, 132,989 options/SARs and 560,603 other awards; Scott F. Powers, Executive Vice President, 139,346 options/ SARs and 680,979 other awards; all current executive officers, as a group, 1,278,057 options/SARs and 5,079,420 other awards; all current directors who are not executive officers, as a group, no options/SARs and 182,707 other awards; and all employees, including all current officers who are not executive officers, as a group, 1,199,020 options/SARs and 33,752,926 other awards.
General Provisions Applicable to All Awards.
Neither ISOs nor, except for gratuitous transfers to the extent permitted by the administrator, other awards may be transferred other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During a recipient's lifetime an ISO and, except as the administrator may provide, other non-transferable awards requiring exercise may be exercised only by the recipient. Shares delivered under the plan may consist of either authorized but unissued shares or previously issued shares acquired by State Street.
Mergers and Similar Transactions.
In the event of a change in control of State Street, as defined in the plan, all options and SARs issued under the plan will become fully exercisable, all shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units will vest, and holders of performance awards as to which the performance period has not ended will (if the transaction involves a payment to shareholders) be cashed out. If options and SARs are granted in substitution for existing awards, the substitute awards will
remain exercisable after a termination of employment or other service relationship (other than by reason of death or disability) or retirement for the lesser of the period of seven months or the period ending on the latest date on which the option or SAR could otherwise have been exercised. Also, in connection with or following a change in control, awards may not be amended in any manner adverse to the participant without the participant's consent.
Whether or not there is a change in control, as defined, in the event of a consolidation, merger, or similar transaction or series of related transactions, including a sale or other disposition of stock, in which State Street is not the surviving corporation or which results in the acquisition of all or substantially all of State Street's then outstanding common stock by a single person or entity or by a group of persons and/or entities acting in concert, a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of State Street's assets, or a dissolution or liquidation of State Street, the following rules will apply except as otherwise provided in an award. If the transaction is one in which there is an acquiring or surviving entity, the administrator may provide for the assumption of some or all outstanding awards or for the grant of new awards in substitution therefore by the acquirer or survivor or an affiliate of the acquirer or survivor. If the transaction is one in which holders of common stock will receive upon consummation a payment (whether cash, non-cash or a combination of the foregoing), the administrator may likewise cash out some or all awards, except that the terms of payment need not be the same as those applicable to holders of common stock. If the transaction (whether or not there is an acquiring or surviving entity) is one in which there is no assumption, substitution or cash-out, awards will become payable, except that the administrator may impose restrictions on amounts payable to carry out the intent of the plan (subject to the requirement of full vesting if the transaction constitutes a change in control). Existing awards requiring exercise, unless assumed, will terminate upon completion of the transaction.
Amendment
. The administrator may at any time or times amend the plan or any outstanding award for any purpose which may at the time be permitted by law, and may at any time terminate the plan as to any future grants of awards. The administrator may not, however, alter the terms of an award so as to affect materially and adversely the participant's rights under the award without the participant's consent, unless the terms of the plan so provide or the administrator expressly reserved the right to do so at the time of the award.
Non-U.S. Participants
: The administrator may provide for special rules applicable to non-U.S. participants.
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans at December 31, 2011
The following table discloses the number of outstanding common stock options, warrants and rights granted by State Street to participants in equity compensation plans, as well as the number of securities remaining available for future issuance under these plans, as of December 31, 2011. The table provides this information separately for equity compensation plans that have and have not been approved by shareholders. The table does not include the additional shares that are the subject of the proposed amendment and restatement of the 2006 equity incentive plan being presented for shareholder approval at the annual meeting.
 
 
Individual directors who are not our employees have received stock awards and cash retainers, both of which may be deferred. Directors may elect to receive shares of our common stock in place of cash. If payment is in the form of common stock, the number of shares is determined by dividing the approved cash amount by the closing price on the date of the annual shareholders' meeting. All deferred shares, whether stock awards or common stock received in place of cash retainers, are increased to reflect dividends paid on the common stock and, for certain directors, may include share amounts in respect of an accrual under a terminated retirement plan. Directors may elect to defer 50% or 100% of cash or stock awards until a date that they specify, usually after
termination of service on the Board. The deferral may also be paid in either a lump sum or in installments over a two- to ten-year period. Stock awards totaling 212,643 shares of common stock were outstanding at December 31, 2011; awards made through June 30, 2003, totaling 41,737 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, have not been approved by shareholders. There are no other equity compensation plans under which our equity securities are authorized for issuance that have been adopted without shareholder approval. Awards of stock made or retainer shares paid to individual directors after June 30, 2003 have been or will be made under our 1997 or 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, both of which were approved by shareholders.
Federal Income Tax Effects
The following discussion summarizes certain United States federal income tax consequences of the issuance and receipt of awards under the plan under the law as in effect on the date of this proxy statement. Changes to these tax laws could alter the tax consequences described below. This summary assumes that all awards are exempt from, or comply with, the rules under Section 409A of the Code related to nonqualified deferred compensation. The summary does not purport to cover federal employment tax or other federal tax consequences that may be associated with the plan, nor does it cover state, local or non-U.S. taxes.
ISOs.
An optionee realizes no taxable income upon the grant or, for regular tax purposes, upon the exercise of an ISO. However, the exercise of an ISO may result in an alternative minimum tax liability to the optionee. With certain exceptions, a disposition of shares purchased under an ISO within two years from the date of grant or within one year after exercise produces ordinary income to the optionee (and a deduction to State Street) equal to the value of the shares at the time of exercise less the exercise price. Any additional gain recognized in the disposition is treated as a capital gain to the optionee for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction. If the optionee does not dispose of the shares until after the expiration of these one- and two-year holding periods, any gain or loss to the optionee recognized upon a subsequent sale is treated as a long-term capital gain or loss for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction.
NSOs
. In general, in the case of a NSO, the optionee has no taxable income at the time of grant but realizes income in connection with exercise of the option in an amount equal to the excess (at the time of exercise) of the fair market value of the shares acquired upon exercise over the exercise price; a corresponding deduction is available to State Street; and upon a subsequent sale or exchange of the shares, any recognized gain or loss after the date of exercise is treated as capital gain or loss to the optionee for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction.
In general, an ISO that is exercised by the optionee more than three months after termination of employment is treated as an NSO. ISOs are also treated as NSOs to the extent they first become exercisable by an individual in any calendar year for shares having a fair market value (determined as of the date of grant) in excess of $100,000.
Stock Appreciation Rights
. A recipient of a stock appreciation right will not have income upon grant of the SAR. The recipient generally will recognize compensation income upon the exercise of the SAR equal to the amount of cash and the fair market value of any stock received; a corresponding deduction is available to State Street. Upon the subsequent sale of the stock, any recognized gain or loss after the date of exercise is treated as capital gain or loss to the recipient for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction.
Restricted Stock Awards
. A recipient will not have income upon the grant of restricted stock unless an election under Section 83(b) of the Code is made within 30 days of the date of grant. If a timely 83(b) election is made, then a recipient will have compensation income equal to the value of the stock less the purchase price and State Street will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. There would be no further tax consequences to the recipient upon the vesting of the shares for which an 83(b) election was made. Upon the subsequent sale of the stock, any recognized gain or loss after the date of grant is treated as capital gain or loss to the recipient for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction. If the recipient forfeits shares for which an 83(b) election was made, the recipient is not entitled to a deduction, loss or credit with respect to the taxes paid as a result of making the election. If the recipient does not make an 83(b) election, then when the stock vests the recipient will have compensation income equal to the value of the stock on the vesting date less the purchase price; a corresponding deduction is available to State Street. Upon the subsequent sale of the stock, any recognized gain or loss after the date of vesting is treated as capital gain or loss for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction. If the recipient forfeits shares and no 83(b) election was made, there are no tax consequences to the recipient as a result of the forfeiture.
Restricted Stock Units.
A recipient will not have income upon the grant of a restricted stock unit award. A recipient is not permitted to make a Section 83(b) election with respect to a restricted stock unit award. When the restricted stock unit vests, or, if the delivery of the shares has been properly deferred, upon delivery of the shares, the recipient will have compensation income equal to the value of the stock less the purchase price, if any; a corresponding deduction is available to State Street. Upon the subsequent sale of the stock, any recognized gain or loss after the date of vesting (or delivery) is treated as capital gain or loss to the recipient for which State Street is not entitled to a deduction.
Golden Parachute Tax.
Under the so-called golden parachute provisions of the Code, the accelerated vesting of awards in connection with a change in ownership or control of State Street may be required to be valued and taken into account in
determining whether participants have received compensatory payments, contingent on the change in control, in excess of certain limits. If these limits are exceeded, a substantial portion of amounts payable to the participant, including income recognized by reason of the grant, vesting or exercise of awards under the plan, may be subject to an additional 20% federal tax and may be nondeductible to State Street.
Section 162(m).
Where applicable, Section 162(m) limits the deduction for compensation payable to certain executive officers of State Street. Options under the plan should be able to qualify as performance-based awards not subject to the deduction limitation under Section 162(m) of the Code. The Board may also grant performance awards that are intended to be exempt from the deduction limitation under Section 162(m) of the Code.

Exhibit 99.2
STATE STREET CORPORATION
2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
as Amended and Restated (2012)
Exhibit A, which is incorporated by reference, defines the terms used in the Plan and sets forth certain operational rules related to those terms. The Plan shall take effect on the Effective Date.
The Plan has been established to advance the interests of the Company by providing for the grant to Participants of Stock-based Awards.
The Administrator has discretionary authority, subject only to the express provisions of the Plan, to interpret the Plan, determine eligibility for and grant or cancel Awards; determine, modify or waive the terms and conditions, size, or type of any Award, prescribe forms, rules and procedures, and otherwise do all things necessary to carry out the purposes of the Plan. In the case of any Award intended to be eligible for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), the Administrator will exercise its discretion consistent with qualifying the Award for that exception. Determinations of the Administrator made under the Plan will be conclusive and will bind all parties.
The Administrator will select Participants from among those key Employees and directors of, and consultants and advisors to, the Company or its Subsidiaries who, in the opinion of the Administrator, are in a position to make a significant contribution
to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Eligibility for ISOs is limited to employees of the Company or of a parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company as those terms are defined in Section 424 of the Code.
 
Restricted Stock and Unrestricted Stock, whether delivered outright or under Awards of Stock Units or other Awards that do not require exercise, may be made in exchange for such lawful consideration, including services, as the Administrator determines. Any Award resulting in a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A shall be construed to the maximum extent possible, as determined by the Administrator, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
and in a form described in Section 7(a)(2).
 
The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Stock pursuant to the Plan or to remove any restriction from shares of Stock previously delivered under the Plan until: (i) the Company is satisfied that all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of such shares have been addressed and resolved; (ii) if the outstanding Stock is at the time of delivery listed on any stock exchange or national market system, the shares to be delivered have been listed or authorized to be listed on such exchange or system upon official notice of issuance; and (iii) all conditions of the Award have been satisfied or waived. If the sale of Stock has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company may require, as a condition to exercise of the Award, such representations or agreements as counsel for the Company may consider appropriate to avoid violation of such Act. The Company may require that certificates evidencing Stock issued under the Plan bear an appropriate legend reflecting any restriction on transfer applicable to such Stock, and the Company may hold the certificates pending lapse of the applicable restrictions.
The Administrator may at any time or times amend the Plan or any outstanding Award for any purpose which may at the time be permitted by law, and may at any time terminate the Plan as to any future grants of Awards;
provided
, that except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan the Administrator may not, without the Participant's consent, alter the terms of an Award so as to affect materially and adversely the Participant's rights under the Award, unless the Administrator expressly reserved the right to do so at the time of the Award. Any amendments to the Plan shall be conditioned upon shareholder approval only to the extent, if any, such approval is required by law (including the Code and applicable stock exchange requirements), as determined by the Administrator.
The existence of the Plan or the grant of any Award will not in any way affect the Company's right to award a person bonuses or other compensation in addition to Awards under the Plan.
EXHIBIT A
Definition of Terms
The following terms, when used in the Plan, will have the meanings and be subject to the provisions set forth below:
Administrator:
The Executive Compensation Committee or, if the Board so determines, another committee of the Board, except that the Executive Compensation Committee or such other committee may delegate (i) to one or more of its members such of its duties, powers and responsibilities as it may determine; (ii) to one or more officers of the Company the power and authority to grant or to allocate, consistent with the requirements of Chapter 156D of the Massachusetts General Laws and subject to such limitations as the Executive Compensation Committee or such other committee may impose, Awards among such persons (other than officers of the Company) eligible to receive Awards under the Plan as such delegated officer or officers determine consistent with such delegation; and (iii) to such Employees or other persons as it determines such ministerial tasks as it deems appropriate. In the event of any delegation described in the preceding sentence, the term Administrator shall include the person or persons so delegated to the extent of such delegation. If the Executive Compensation Committee or such other committee includes members who are not non-employee directors within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or outside directors within the meaning of paragraph (4)(c)(i) of Section 162(m), it shall act and shall be deemed to have acted, in any case where it would be required to do so with respect to Awards to directors or executive officers of the Company to ensure exemption under Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m), through a subcommittee consisting solely of its non-employee and outside director members.
Award:
Any or a combination of the following:
(i)    Stock Options.
(ii)    SARs.
(iii)    Restricted Stock.
(iv)    Unrestricted Stock.
 
(v)    Stock Units, including Restricted Stock Units.
(vi)    Performance Awards.
(vii)    Awards (other than Awards described in (i) through (vi) above) that are convertible into or otherwise based on Stock.
Board:
The Board of Directors of the Company.
Change in Control:
Any of the following:
(1) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a Person) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Stock of the Company (the Outstanding Company Common Stock) or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the Outstanding Company Voting Securities); excluding, however, the following acquisitions of Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (iv) any acquisition by any Person pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this definition; or
(2) Individuals who, as of the effective date of the Plan, constitute the Board (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to such effective date, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; but, provided further, that any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board shall not be so considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(3) Consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (Business Combination); excluding, however, such a Business Combination pursuant to which (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who are the beneficial owners, respectively, of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock, and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (other than any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors except to the extent that such ownership existed with respect to the Company prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(4) The approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
provided
, that, to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 409A, where applicable, an event described above shall be treated as a Change in Control only if it also constitutes or results in a change in ownership or control of the Company, or a change in ownership of assets of the Company, described in Section 409A.
Code:
The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as from time to time amended and in effect, or any successor statute as from time to time in effect. Any reference to a provision of the Code shall include, as determined by the Administrator, a reference to applicable regulations and Internal Revenue Service guidance with respect to such provision.
Company:
State Street Corporation.
Covered Transaction:
Any of (i) a consolidation, merger, or similar transaction or series of related transactions, including a sale or other disposition of stock, in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or which results in the acquisition of all or substantially all of the Company's then outstanding common stock by a single person or entity or by a group of persons and/or entities acting in concert, (ii) a sale or transfer of all or substantially all the Company's assets, or (iii) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company.
Where a Covered Transaction involves a tender offer that is reasonably expected to be followed by a merger described in clause (i) (as determined by the Administrator), the Covered Transaction shall be deemed to have occurred upon consummation of the tender offer.
Effective Date:
The date on which the shareholders of the Company approve the Plan.
Employee:
Any person who is employed by the Company or a Subsidiary.
Employment:
A Participant's employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Employment will be deemed to continue, unless the Administrator expressly provides otherwise, so long as the Participant is employed by, or otherwise is providing services in a capacity described in Section 5 to the Company or its Subsidiaries. If a Participant's employment or other service relationship is with a Subsidiary and that entity ceases to be a Subsidiary, the Participant's Employment will be deemed to have terminated when the entity ceases to be a Subsidiary unless the Participant transfers Employment to the Company or its remaining Subsidiaries.
Executive Compensation Committee:
The Executive Compensation Committee of the Board.
ISO:
A Stock Option intended to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422. Each option granted pursuant to the Plan will be treated as providing by its terms that it is to be a non-incentive stock option unless, as of the date of grant, it is expressly designated as an ISO. No ISO shall be exercisable beyond ten years from the date of grant.
Participant:
A person who is granted an Award under the Plan.
Performance Award
: An Award subject to Performance Criteria. The Committee in its discretion may grant Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) and Performance Awards that are not intended so to qualify.
Performance Criteria
: Specified criteria, other than the mere continuation of Employment or the mere passage of time, the satisfaction of which is a condition for the grant, exercisability, vesting or full enjoyment of an Award. For purposes of Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), a Performance Criterion
will mean an objectively determinable measure of performance relating to any or any combination of the following (measured either absolutely or by reference to an index or indices and determined either on a consolidated basis or, as the context permits, on a divisional, subsidiary, line of business, project or geographical basis or in combinations thereof): sales; revenue; assets; expenses; expense control; earnings before or after deduction for all or any portion of interest, taxes, depreciation, or amortization, whether or not on a continuing operations or an aggregate or per share basis; return on equity, investment, capital or assets; capital or capital ratios; one or more operating ratios; operating leverage; borrowing levels, leverage ratios or credit rating; market share; capital expenditures; cash flow; stock price; shareholder return; sales of particular products or services; customer acquisition or retention; acquisitions and divestitures (in whole or in part); joint ventures and strategic alliances; spin-offs, split-ups and the like; reorganizations; or recapitalizations, restructurings, financings (issuance of debt or equity) or refinancings. A Performance Criterion and any targets with respect thereto determined by the Administrator need not be based upon an increase, a positive or improved result or avoidance of loss. To the extent consistent with the requirements for satisfying the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), the Administrator may provide in the case of any Award intended to qualify for such exception that one or more of the Performance Criteria applicable to such Award will be adjusted in an objectively determinable manner to reflect events (for example, but without limitation, acquisitions or dispositions, changes in accounting principles or interpretations, impairment charges) occurring during the performance period that affect the applicable Performance Criterion or Criteria.
Plan:
The State Street Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan as from time to time amended and in effect.
Prior Plan:
The State Street Corporation 1997 Equity Incentive Plan as amended and in effect prior to the Effective Date.
Restricted Stock:
Stock subject to restrictions requiring that it be redelivered or offered for sale to the Company if specified conditions are not satisfied.
Restricted Stock Unit:
A Stock Unit that is, or as to which the delivery of Stock or cash in lieu of Stock is, subject to the satisfaction of specified performance or other vesting conditions.
SAR:
A right entitling the holder upon exercise to receive an amount (payable in shares of Stock of equivalent value) equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares of Stock subject to the right over the fair market value of such shares at the date of grant.
Section 409A:
Section 409A of the Code.
Section 422:
Section 422 of the Code.
Section 162(m):
Section 162(m) of the Code.
Stock:
The Common Stock of the Company, par value $1 per share.
Stock Option:
An option entitling the holder to acquire shares of Stock upon payment of the exercise price.
Stock Unit:
An unfunded and unsecured promise, denominated in shares of Stock, to deliver Stock or cash measured by the value of Stock in the future.
Subsidiary:
Any corporation or other entity that stands in a relationship to the Company that would result in the Company and such corporation or other entity being treated as one employer under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code, except that in determining eligibility for the grant of a Stock Option or SAR by reason of service for a Subsidiary, Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code shall be applied by substituting at least 50% for at least 80% under Section 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the Code and Treas. Regs.  1.414(c)-2;
provided
, that to the extent permitted under Section 409A, at least 20% shall be used in lieu of at least 50%;
and further provided
, that the lower ownership threshold described in this definition (50% or 20% as the case may be) shall apply only if the same definition of affiliation is used consistently with respect to all compensatory stock options or stock awards (whether under the Plan or another plan). The Company may at any time by amendment provide that different ownership thresholds (consistent with Section 409A) apply. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator a corporation or other entity shall be treated as a Subsidiary only if its employees would be treated as employees of the Company for purposes of the rules promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the use of Form S-8.
Unrestricted Stock:
Stock not subject to any restrictions under the terms of the Award
.


