FILE:STT/STT-8K-20120820143612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
The information set forth in Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated in this Item 3.03 by reference.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On August 15, 2012, State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation ("State Street"), filed Articles of Amendment with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for the purpose of amending its Articles of Organization to fix the designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights of its Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, without par value per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). A copy of the Articles of Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On August 14, 2012, State Street entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives for the several underwriters listed on Schedule I thereto (the "Underwriters"). The Underwriting Agreement relates to the issue and sale by State Street of 20,000,000 depositary shares (the "Depositary Shares") each representing a 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of Preferred Stock, created pursuant to the Articles of Amendment described above, in an underwritten public offering described below.
The above description of the Underwriting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The public offering of the Depositary Shares by State Street is contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and is made pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179875), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 2, 2012, a base prospectus also filed with the SEC on March 2, 2012 (the "Base Prospectus"), a preliminary prospectus supplement, filed with the SEC on August 14, 2012 (the "Preliminary Prospectus Supplement"), and a prospectus supplement, filed with the SEC on August 16, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement", and, together with the Base Prospectus and the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement, the "Prospectus"). The offering was priced at $25 per depositary share. The net proceeds to State Street from the offering will be approximately $487.5 million, after deducting expenses and underwriting discounts and commissions. State Street intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to redeem all of the outstanding shares of State Street's Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A ("Series A Preferred Stock") at a cash redemption price of $100,000 per share, together with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date, from State Street Capital Trust III. Upon the completion of the redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock, State Street Capital Trust III will in turn redeem all of State Street's outstanding 8.250% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities and all of the outstanding common securities issued by State Street Capital Trust III.
In connection with the underwritten public offering of the Depositary Shares, State Street expects to enter into a deposit agreement (the "Deposit Agreement") with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC (as depositary) and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts. The Deposit Agreement will be filed at a later date.
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to State Street, has issued an opinion to State Street, dated August 17, 2012, regarding the legality of the Depositary Shares to be issued and sold in the offering upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is attached hereto as Exhibit 5.1 and is incorporated herein and into the Prospectus by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
August 14, 2012
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
                     Incorporated
UBS Securities LLC
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC,
    As Representatives of the several Underwriters
        named in Schedule I hereto
c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
1585 Broadway, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10036
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
c/o UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Blvd
Stamford, Connecticut 06901
and
c/o Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street, 6th Floor
Charlotte, North Carolina 28288
Ladies and Gentlemen:
1. . State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters listed in hereto (the ""), for whom Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC are acting as Representatives (the ""), to issue and sell to the several Underwriters an aggregate of 20,000,000 depositary shares (the ""), each representing 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of the Company's Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C without par value per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the ""). The Preferred Stock, when issued, will be deposited against delivery of depositary receipts (the ""), which will evidence the depositary shares that are to be issued by American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC (the "") under a deposit agreement to be dated August 21, 2012 (the ""), among the Company, the Depositary and the holders from time to time of the Depositary Receipts issued thereunder. The Preferred Stock and the Depositary Shares are herein collectively referred to as the "". The Securities are described in the Final Prospectus, which is referred to below. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined, but that are defined, in the Statutory Prospectus (as defined in Section 2(a)), have the meaning specified in the Statutory Prospectus.
Introductory
Company
Schedule I
Underwriters
Representatives
Depositary Shares
Preferred Stock
Depositary Receipts
Depositary
Deposit Agreement
Securities
2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed with the Commission an automatic shelf registration statement as defined under Rule 405 of the Act (as defined below) on Form S-3 (No. 333-179875) on March 2, 2012, including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Securities under the Act, which became effective upon filing. The "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been then superseded or modified. The "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
 
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule II
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, with respect to a particular time, the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any 430B Information or 430C Information with respect to such Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
 
As used herein, "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York and Boston, Massachusetts are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
business day
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b) The documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package (as hereinafter defined) and the Final Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations (including but not limited to those relating to eXtensible Business Reporting Language), and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations, and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , , that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance.
provided
however
(c) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement (other than Form T-1 filings filed as exhibits thereto) conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing
Securities Act Requirements
 
Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
(d) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, and (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement", as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time and so long as delivery of a prospectus by any Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
(iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) under the Act.
Filing Fees
(e) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer", as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(f) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated August 14, 2012, including the base prospectus, dated March 2, 2012 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
Schedule II
General Disclosure Package
(g) . No Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement. If, at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date and following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
(ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
(h) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package; and, since the most recent applicable dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt (other than (i) issuances of capital stock upon (A) exercise of options and stock appreciation rights issued under equity incentive or stock option plans reported on the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on April 5, 2012, and on the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, (B) earn-outs of performance shares or (C) conversions of convertible securities, and (ii) issuances of capital stock under stock incentive plans, deferred stock compensation plans, restricted stock programs and saving-related purchase plans, in the case of (i) and (ii) above, which were outstanding on the date of the latest balance sheet included or incorporated by reference into the General Disclosure Package, (iii) repurchases of the Company's common stock in accordance with the Company's stock repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors and (iv) repayment of long-term debt in accordance with its terms) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (""), or any development involving a prospective Material Adverse Effect, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
No Material Change in Business.
Material Adverse Effect
(i) Each of the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or trust company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate and chartered trust power and authority, as the case may be, to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or trust company for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
Good Standing.
Bank
 
(j) The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, and the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and are validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable. Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, (i) no person has the right, contractual or otherwise, to cause the Company to issue or sell to it any shares of Preferred Stock or shares of any other preferred stock of the Company; (ii) no person has any preemptive rights, resale rights, rights of first refusal or other rights to purchase any shares of Preferred Stock or shares of any other preferred stock of the Company; and (iii) no person has the right, contractual or otherwise, to cause the Company to register under the Act any shares of Preferred Stock or shares of any other preferred stock of the Company, or to include any such shares in the Registration Statement or the offering contemplated thereby, whether as a result of the filing or effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the sale of the Securities as contemplated thereby or otherwise. Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, no person has the right to act as an underwriter to the Company in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities.
Capitalization.
(k) The shares of Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares being delivered to the Underwriters at the Closing Date have been duly and validly authorized by the Company and, when issued and delivered by the Company to the Depositary against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and will have the rights set forth in the Company's Articles of Organization and By-laws, as amended to the Closing Date; and the Preferred Stock will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Preferred Stock.
(l) .The Depositary Shares being delivered to the Underwriters at the Closing Date have been duly and validly authorized and, when issued and delivered to the Depositary against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package, will be duly and validly issued, will represent legal and valid interests in the Preferred Stock and will be entitled to the rights under, and the benefits of, the Deposit Agreement; and all corporate action required to be taken for the sale of the Depositary Shares has been validly and sufficiently taken; and the Depositary Shares will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Depositary Shares
(m) The Deposit Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, and when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute a legal, valid and binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; and such Deposit Agreement and the Depositary Receipts will conform to the descriptions thereof in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Deposit Agreement.
 
(n) . The (i) issue and sale of the Securities by the Company, (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and (iii) compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Deposit Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein and therein contemplated by the Company will not conflict with or result in any breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any security interest, lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or the Bank is a party or by which the Company or the Bank is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or the Bank is subject (except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) of the Company or the Bank or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or the Bank or any of their properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement or in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement, except such as have been, or will have been prior to the Closing Date, obtained under the Act, and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from the Transactions
(o) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(p) .The amended Articles of Organization and the Certificate of Designation for the Preferred Stock have been duly authorized and executed by the Company. The form of certificate representing the Securities complies with the requirements of Massachusetts state law and the Company's Articles of Organization and By-laws.
Articles of Organization; Certificate of Designation
(q) . Neither the Company nor the Bank is in violation of its organizational documents (including Articles of Organization or By-laws) or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture,
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
 
mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(r) . The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions (A) "Description of Series C Preferred Stock" and "Description of Depositary Shares", insofar as such statements summarize the terms of the Securities and the Deposit Agreement, and (B) "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations", insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of matters of U.S. federal income tax law or legal conclusions with respect thereto, are accurate, complete and fair in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure
(s) . Other than as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated legal or government actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Deposit Agreement or the Securities.
Litigation
(t) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
(u) . Ernst & Young, LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations.
Independence of Accountants
(v) . The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended; and the Company and the Bank are in compliance with, and conduct their respective businesses in conformity with, all applicable laws and governmental regulations governing bank holding companies, banks and subsidiaries of bank holding companies, respectively, except failures to so comply or be in conformity that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Bank Holding Company
(w) . Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, the Bank
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in material compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and all applicable Exchange Act rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Internal Controls are overseen by the Examining and Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. Since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package, the Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90 days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, any significant deficiency (other than any which have been substantially remediated as of the date hereof), material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls, any violation of, or failure to comply with, Sarbanes-Oxley or the Exchange Act that has materially affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect Internal Controls, or any other matter related to Internal Controls which, if determined adversely, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Board
Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
(x) Each of the Company and the Bank, and, to the knowledge of the Company and the Bank, any of their respective officers, directors, agents, or employees, has not since December 31, 2003, materially violated, its participation in the offering will not materially violate, and it has instituted and maintains policies and/or procedures designed to ensure continued compliance with each of the following laws, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations: anti-bribery laws, including but not limited to, any law, rule, or regulation of any locality, including but not limited to any law, rule, or regulation promulgated to implement the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, signed December 17, 1997, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or any other law, rule or regulation of similar purpose and scope.
Anti-Bribery Laws.
(y) Each of the Company and the Bank has implemented a risk-based anti-money laundering and sanctions
Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions.
 
compliance program consistent with applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act Examination Manual and applicable law, including but not limited to the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and the laws, regulations and Executive Orders administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, to the extent applicable to and binding upon the Company's and the Bank's respective operations.
3. . (a) On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, the respective number of Depositary Shares set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in hereto at a purchase price per Depositary Share of $24.438158759375. The purchase price per Depositary Share of 24.438158759375 represents a blended rate of $24.7500 per Depositary Share in respect of 8,396,605 Depositary Shares sold to institutional investors and $24.2125 per Depositary Share in respect of 11,603,395 Depositary Shares sold to retail investors
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
Schedule I
(b) The Company will deliver the Depositary Shares to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (the "") on the Closing Date. The time and date of such delivery and payment shall be at 9:00 a.m., New York time, on August 21, 2012, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such date and time being herein referred to as the "". The documents to be delivered at the Closing Date by or on behalf of the parties hereto, will be delivered at the Closing Location. The Depositary Shares to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the office of the Depository Trust Company ("") or its designated custodian at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date. For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of all the Securities sold pursuant to the offering.
Closing Location
Closing Date
DTC
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by the Underwriters
 
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used and the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses
(b) . For so long as a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, the Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
(c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at the Company's expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) . For so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities, the Company will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to the Representatives and,
Reporting Requirements
 
upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of any annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), they are not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
EDGAR
(e) The Company will promptly from time to time take such action as the Representatives may reasonably request to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities; that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided
(f) As soon as available following the execution of this Agreement, but in no event later than two New York business days thereafter, and so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Underwriters written and electronic copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in New York City in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(g) . The Company will make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c)), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the Rules and Regulations (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158).
Rule 158
(h) During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the date that is 30 days after the date hereof, the Company shall not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly offer, sell, contract to sell,
Restrictions on Sales of Preferred Securities.
 
pledge, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, make any short sale, announce the offering or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any preferred securities or any other securities of the Company or the Bank (other than the Securities) which are substantially similar to the Securities, including any guarantee of any such securities, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for or representing the right to receive any such securities.
(i) .The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to effect the admission, listing and trading of the Depositary Shares on The New York Stock Exchange (the "") within 30 days of the Closing Date and to maintain such listing.
NYSE
NYSE
(j) The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the General Disclosure Package under the caption "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) The Company, upon request of any Underwriter, will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to such Underwriter an electronic version of the Company's trademarks, servicemarks and corporate logo for use on the website, if any, operated by such Underwriter for the purpose of facilitating the on-line offering of the Securities (the ""); , , that the License shall be used solely for the purpose described above, is granted without any fee and may not be assigned or transferred.
Company License.
License
provided
however
(m) The Company will pay or cause to be paid the following: (i) the costs, expenses, fees and taxes in connection with the registration, issue, sale and delivery of the Securities, including any transfer taxes and stamp or similar duties, and the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Act and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing any agreement among Underwriters, this Agreement, any Blue Sky Memoranda, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(e) hereof, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky survey(s); (iv) all fees and expenses in connection with the admission and listing of the Securities in any
Payment of Expenses.
 
appropriate stock exchange or market system, including the NYSE; (v) all fees and expenses incident to the registration of the Securities under the Exchange Act; (vi) any fees charged by securities rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, any required review by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the Securities; (viii) the costs of preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities and the Depositary Receipts; (ix) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar; (x) the fees and expenses of the Depositary and any agent of the Depositary and the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Depositary in connection with the Deposit Agreement and the Securities; and (xi) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder and under the Deposit Agreement which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Securities by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
(n) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "". The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
(b) . The Company will prepare, or cause to be prepared, a final term sheet relating to the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this
Term Sheet
 
Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information", as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened or shall be contemplated by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Filing of Prospectus.
(b) . The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. In rendering such opinion or opinions, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely, as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, upon the opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, delivered pursuant to Section 7(d), or the opinion of David C. Phelan, delivered pursuant to Section 7(c).
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
 
(c) . The Representatives shall have received:
Opinion and Negative Assurance Letter of Counsel for Company
(i) An opinion, dated the Closing Date, of either David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, or Jeffrey N. Carp, Chief Legal Officer for the Company, to the effect that to the best of such counsel's knowledge and other than with respect to such matters in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, there are no pending, threatened or contemplated legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, which, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or other relief sought and other relevant factors, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in any material adverse change in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position or stockholders' equity of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(ii) A letter, dated the Closing Date, of either David C. Phelan, General Counsel for the Company, or Jeffrey N. Carp, Chief Legal Officer for the Company, to the effect that while the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) the documents incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto prior to such Closing Date (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data therein, as to which such counsel expresses no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the Rules and Regulations; (B) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements
 
therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of its date or the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view); and (C) to such counsel's knowledge, there are no amendments to the Registration Statement required to be filed or any contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus or required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus which are not filed or incorporated by reference as described or required.
(d) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, and addressed to the Underwriters, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect that:
Opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
(i) The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has the corporate power and authority to carry on its business and to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby. The Bank is validly existing as a chartered trust company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has chartered trust company power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties, as such business and properties are described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus.
Good Standing of the Company and the Bank.
(ii) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization.
(iii) The shares of Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares being delivered to the Underwriters at the Closing Date have been duly authorized by the Company and, when issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will be validly issued, fully
Issuances by the Company.
 
paid and nonassessable and will have the rights set forth in the Company's Articles of Organization and By-laws, as amended to the Closing Date; and the issuance of such shares of Preferred Stock will not be subject to any preemptive rights under the Articles of Organization and By-laws of the Company, as amended to the Closing Date. The Depositary Shares being delivered to the Underwriters by the Depositary at the Closing Date have been duly authorized by the Company and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, will be validly issued, will represent legal and valid interests in the Preferred Stock and will be entitled to the rights under, and the benefits of, the Deposit Agreement; and the global Depositary Receipt is in the form set forth in the Deposit Agreement.
(iv) . The Deposit Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
Deposit Agreement
(v) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as is set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus.
Capitalization of the Company
(vi) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement by the Company do not and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (A) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the Articles of Organization, By-laws or any agreement or instrument listed on a schedule to such opinion or (B) violate or conflict with any United States federal law, Massachusetts state law or New York state law, rule or regulation that in such counsel's experience is normally applicable in transactions of the type contemplated by this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement, or any judgment, order or decree specifically naming the Company of which such counsel is aware.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts.
(vii) . Except as has been made or obtained under the Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder and the Exchange Act, and the Rules and Regulations thereunder, no filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any United States federal, Massachusetts or New York governmental authority or agency is necessary in connection with the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement or for the issuance, sale and delivery of the Shares by the Company to the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement.
Consents
 
(viii) (A) The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Description of Series C Preferred Stock" and "Description of Depositary Shares" insofar as such statements summarize the terms of the Securities and the Deposit Agreement, are correct in all material respects; and (B) the statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus under the caption "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations", insofar as such statements constitute matters of law or legal conclusions, are correct in all material respects.
Accurate Disclosure.
(ix) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package or Final Prospectus, will not be an "investment company", as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
(x) . While the limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such that such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus (except to the extent expressly set forth in Section 7(d)(viii) hereof), subject to the foregoing and based on such participation and discussions: (A) The Registration Statement, as of the date of its filing with the Commission, and the Final Prospectus, as of its date (except for the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial and accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel expresses no view), appear on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the applicable Rules and Regulations thereunder; and (B) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above), (ii) the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above) or (iii) the Final Prospectus, as of its date or the date of such opinion, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except as set forth in the parenthetical in clause (A) above).
Disclosure
 
(e) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent registered public accountants as required by the Act and the Rules and Regulations and containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Final Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut off" date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date.
Accountants' Comfort Letter
provided
(f) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Depositary Shares; (ii) any downgrading in or withdrawal of the rating of any securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Section 3 of the Exchange Act), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Depositary Shares, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal, New York or Massachusetts state authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed; or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Depositary Shares or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Depositary Shares.
No Material Adverse Change
 
(g) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
(h) Designation. The amended Articles of Organization and the Certificate of Designation for the Preferred Stock have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and filed with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Articles of Organization; Certificate of
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably require. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d), or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of the Underwriters
Indemnified Party
 
Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
provided
however
(b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession figures appearing in the fourth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made
Actions against Parties; Notification
 
against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (which counsel shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue
Contribution
 
statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.
(e) . The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 8(d).
Miscellaneous
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase any of the Depositary Shares hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate number of the Depositary Shares that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total number of Depositary Shares that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Depositary Shares by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Depositary Shares that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate number of the Depositary Shares with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total aggregate number of the Depositary Shares that the applicable Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Depositary Shares by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
 
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Company, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities not so delivered, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 5(m) and 8 hereof; , , that all parties shall only be responsible for their own out-of-pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, if any Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein for any of the following reasons: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the NYSE, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal, New York or Massachusetts State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war; or (iv) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, if any Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
provided
however
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, 1585 Broadway, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10036; Goldman, Sachs & Co., 200 West Street, New York, New York 10282, Attention: Registration Department; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, NY1-050-12 -01, New York, NY 10020, Attention: Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal; UBS Securities LLC, 677 Washington Blvd, Stamford, Connecticut 06901, Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate, Facsimile (203) 719-0495; and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC 301 S. College Street, 6th Floor, Charlotte, North Carolina 28288, Attention: Transaction Management, Facsimile (704) 383-9165 as Representatives of the several Underwriters, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at the address or facsimile number of the
Notices
 
Company set forth in the Registration Statement, Attention: Secretary; , , that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
provided
however
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of the Underwriters
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
(a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriter in connection with the sale of the Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Deposit Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b) . The price of the Depositary Shares set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arm's length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Deposit Agreement;
Arm's Length Negotiations
(c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the process leading thereto and agrees that the
Waiver
 
Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
16.
Applicable Law
.
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
In accordance with the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), each of the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow such Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
1. Final term sheet, dated August 14, 2012.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5) Approved by:
(check appropriate box)
 
 
 
(6) State the article number and the text of the amendment. Unless contained in the text of the amendment, state the provisions for implementing the exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued shares.
That Article IV of the Restated Articles of Organization be amended to designate a Series C of Preferred Stock more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof.
 
To change the number of shares and the par value, * if any, of any type, or to designate a class or series, of stock, or change a designation of class or series of stock, which the corporation is authorized to issue, complete the following:
Total authorized prior to amendment:
 
Total authorized after amendment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on this day of , .
14th
August
2012
Exhibit A
State Street Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.02 thereof, hereby certifies:
Corporation
On August 14, 2012, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, in accordance with the votes of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on February 16, 2012 and the provisions of the Corporation's Articles of Organization, as amended, duly adopted the following vote creating a series of 5,000 shares of preferred stock of the Corporation designated as "Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C".
that pursuant to the authority vested in the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and in accordance with the votes of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on February 16, 2012 and the provisions of the Corporation's Articles of Organization, as amended, a series of preferred stock, without par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares, and the preferences, limitations, and relative rights thereof are as follows:
VOTED:
The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C Preferred Stock. Series C Preferred Stock will rank (i) at least equally with Parity Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (ii) and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1. Designation.
Series C Preferred Stock
The number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be 5,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock set forth in the Articles of Organization) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further votes duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of articles of amendment pursuant to the provisions of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
Section 2. Number of Shares.
As used herein with respect to Series C Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions.
"" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
(a)
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
"" means the Articles of Organization of the Corporation, as may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.
(b)
Articles of Organization
"" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
(c)
Board of Directors
"" means the Bylaws of the Corporation, as may be amended from time to time.
(d)
Bylaws
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York, New York or Boston, Massachusetts are permitted or required by any applicable law to close.
(e)
Business Day
"" means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series C Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.
(f)
Certificate of Designation
"" means the common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation.
(g)
Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
(h)
Depositary Company
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
(i)
Dividend Payment Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
(j)
Dividend Period
"" means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
(k)
DTC
"" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series C Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(l)
Junior Stock
"" means the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act, as amended from time to time.
(m)
MBCA
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c)(i) hereof.
(n)
Nonpayment
"" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(o)
Parity Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c)(i) hereof.
(p)
Preferred Director
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a) hereof.
(q)
Redemption Price
"" means the Corporation's determination, in good faith, that, as a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in (including any announced prospective amendment or change), the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any share of Series C Preferred Stock, (ii) any proposed amendment or change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any share of Series C Preferred Stock, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after the initial issuance of any share of Series C Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation value of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding as "tier 1 capital" (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding.
(r)
Regulatory Capital Treatment Event
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
(s)
Series C Preferred Stock
Section 4. Dividends.
Holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum equal to 5.250% on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series C Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 or December 15; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of original issuance of such Series C Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "." The record date for payment of dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date;, , if any such day is not a Business Day, then the record date will be the next succeeding day that is a Business Day. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock shall not be declared, paid or set aside for payment to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable thereto, including applicable capital adequacy guidelines.
(a) Rate.
provided
however
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
provided
however
 
Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall not accrue or be payable for such Dividend Period, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series C Preferred Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
(b) Non-Cumulative Dividends.
So long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock or any dividend or distribution of capital stock or rights to acquire capital stock of the Corporation in connection with a shareholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of capital stock or rights to acquire capital stock under any such plan, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than (A) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (B) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (C) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (D) purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock pursuant to any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants, (E) purchases of shares of Junior Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy Junior Stock existing prior to or during the most recent preceding Dividend Period for which the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan or (F) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such stock or the security being converted or exchanged), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series C Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock during a Dividend Period, unless, in each case, the full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been declared and paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment in full thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any declared but unpaid dividend payment on shares of Series C Preferred Stock that is paid after the relevant Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock on a
(c) Priority of Dividends.
pro rata
pro rata
 
Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice (which may be in the form of a press release or other public announcement) to the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock and any Parity Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Section 5. Liquidation Rights.
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution of the assets of the Corporation may be made to the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any other amounts in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
(a) Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation.
If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any declared and unpaid dividends in full to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series C Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
(b) Partial Payment.
pro rata
If the liquidation preference plus any declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c) Residual Distributions.
For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not constitute a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other entity or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other entity into or with the Corporation in which the holders of Series C Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property, constitute a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation.
 
Section 6. Redemption.
The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, on the Dividend Payment Date on September 15, 2017 or on any Dividend Payment Date thereafter, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends (the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days following the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may provide notice of its intent to redeem, as provided in Subsection (b) below, and subsequently redeem, all (but not less than all) of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding at the Redemption Price applicable on such date of redemption.
(a) Optional Redemption.
Redemption Price
Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be either (1) mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation or (2) transmitted by such other method approved by the Depositary Company, in its reasonable discretion, to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed. Such mailing or transmittal shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC (or a successor securities depositary), the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC (or such successor).Any notice provided pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to provide such notice, or any defect in such notice or in the provision thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder (or the method of determining such number); (iii) the Redemption Price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates evidencing such shares of Series C Preferred Stock are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; and (v) that dividend rights on the shares to be redeemed will cease on the redemption date.
(b) Notice of Redemption.
In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series C Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c) Partial Redemption.
pro rata
 
If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividend rights with respect to such shares will cease on the redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the trust fund set aside by the Corporation or from the bank or trust company where the funds have been deposited at any time after the redemption date from such funds, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
(d) Effectiveness of Redemption.
Depositary Company
The holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
Section 7. Voting Rights.
Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all of the shares of the Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a single class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the Articles of Organization (including this Certificate of Designation and any other certificate of designation or any similar document relating to any series of preferred stock) or Bylaws which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series C Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series C Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series C Preferred Stock.
(a) Supermajority Voting RightsAmendments.
Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all of the shares of the Series C Preferred Stock at the time
(b) Supermajority Voting RightsPriority.
 
outstanding, voting separately as a single class, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of stock ranking senior to the shares of the Series C Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock with respect to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
(c) Special Voting Right.
If and whenever dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid, or declared and set aside for payment, in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not) (a ""), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other series of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends with equivalent voting rights), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock having equivalent voting rights with the Series C Preferred Stock is a "".
(i) Voting Right.
Nonpayment
Preferred Director
The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of shareholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, but prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the shareholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of shareholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock, and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below.
(ii) Election.
Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's Bylaws for a special meeting of the shareholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of
(iii) Notice for Special Meeting.
 
any such request, then any holder of Series C Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation's expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation's shareholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends with equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the shareholders.
Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods following a Nonpayment event, then the right of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any subsequent Nonpayment). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the Corporation's board of directors will be automatically reduced accordingly. When the voting rights described in this Section 7(c) are in effect, any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred that ranks on party with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends with equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist).
(iv) Termination; Removal.
Without the consent of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights thereof, of the Series C Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series C Preferred Stock:
(d) Changes for Clarification.
to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that may be defective or inconsistent; or
(i)
to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.
(ii)
No vote or consent of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(a), 7(b) or 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
(e) Changes after Provision for Redemption.
 
 The holders of Series C Preferred Stock are not entitled to vote as a separate class or series or voting group (including without limitation, alone or together with one or more other classes or series of shares) with respect to any plan of merger or share exchange solely as a result of Section 11.04(6) of the MBCA (or any similar successor provision of the MBCA).
(f) Inapplicability of Section 11.04(6) of the Act.
The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series C Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8. Conversion.
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Articles of Organization, the Bylaws or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 9. Rank.
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase Series C Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; , , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10. Repurchase.
provided
however
Shares of Series C Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares.
The Series C Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
Section 12. No Sinking Fund.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and any transfer agent for the Series C Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series C Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 13. Record Holders.
All notices or communications in respect of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, the Corporation's Articles of Organization or Bylaws or by applicable law.
Section 14. Notices.
 
No share of Series C Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 15. No Preemptive Rights.
The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Articles of Organization or as provided by applicable law.
Section 16. Other Rights.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, State Street Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Jeffrey N. Carp, its Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary, this 14th day of August 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
I hereby certify that upon examination of these articles of amendment, it appears that the provisions of the General Laws relative thereto have been complied with, and the filing fee in the amount of $100 having been paid, said articles are deemed to have been filed with me this 15
th
day of August, 2012, at 11:52 /p.m.
a.m.
time                  
 
Filing fee: Minimum filing fee $100 per article amended, stock increases $100 per 100,000 shares, plus $100 for each additional 100,000 shares or any fraction thereof.
 
Upon filing, a copy of this filing will be available at www.sec.state.ma.us/cor. If the document is rejected, a copy of the rejection sheet and rejected document will be available in the rejected queue.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
State Street Corporation (the "Company") will furnish without charge, to each shareholder who so requests, a summary of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock of the Company and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and rights, and the variations in rights, preferences and limitations determined for each series, which are fixed by the Articles of Organization of the Company, as amended, and the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company, and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series. Such requests may be made to the office of the Secretary of the Company or to the transfer agent. The Board of Directors may require the owner of a lost or destroyed stock certificate, or his legal representatives, to give the Company a bond to indemnify it and its transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made against them on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate.
The securities represented by this instrument are not savings accounts, deposits or other obligations of a bank and are not insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation or any other governmental agency.
The Company has more than one class of stock authorized to be issued. The Company will furnish without charge to each stockholder upon written request a copy of the full text of the preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special and relative rights of the shares of each class of stock (and any series thereof) authorized to be issued by the Company as set forth in the Articles of Organization of the Company and amendments thereto as filed with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
August 17, 2012
State Street Corporation
One Lincoln Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for State Street Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the sale by the Company, of 20,000,000 depositary shares (the "Shares"), each representing a 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, without par value per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the "Preferred Stock") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives for the several underwriters listed on thereto (the "Underwriters").
Schedule I
As such counsel, we have assisted in the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") of the Company's prospectus supplement dated August 14, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus, dated March 2, 2012 (the "Base Prospectus" and, as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, the "Prospectus"), each relating to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179875) filed by the Company with the Commission on March 2, 2012. Such Registration Statement, in the form in which it became effective, including any amendment thereto, and the documents incorporated by reference therein and the information deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"
We have examined and relied upon corporate or other proceedings of the Company regarding (i) the authorization of (x) the execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement and the Deposit Agreement (as defined below), (y) the Certificate of Designation of Series C Preferred Stock filed with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on August 15, 2012, and (z) the issuance of the Preferred Stock and the Shares, (ii) the Registration Statement, (iii) the Base Prospectus, (iv) the Prospectus Supplement, (v) the Underwriting Agreement and (vi) the Deposit Agreement (the "Deposit Agreement") to be entered into among the Company, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC (the "Depositary") and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein,
 
State Street Corporation
August 17, 2012
Page 2
including the form of depositary receipt (the "Depositary Receipt") attached thereto. We have also examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Company, such other agreements and instruments, certificates of public officials and such other documents, instruments and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed.
In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individual signatories, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of such original documents, and the completeness and accuracy of the corporate records of the Company provided to us by the Company.
In rendering the opinions expressed herein, we have assumed that (i) the Depositary has the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Deposit Agreement, (ii) the Deposit Agreement will be a valid and binding obligation of the Depositary, and (iii) the Depositary meets the requirements for a depositary as set forth in the Deposit Agreement. We have also assumed the due execution of the Depositary Receipts by the Depositary, that there will not have occurred, prior to the date of issuance of the Preferred Stock or the Shares, any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of the Deposit Agreement, and that at the time of the issuance and sale of the Preferred Stock and the Shares, the Board of Directors of the Company has not taken any action to rescind or otherwise reduce its prior authorization of the issuance of the Preferred Stock or the Shares.
We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the state laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America.
We have assumed for purposes of our opinions below that no authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or (to the extent the same is required under any agreement or document binding on it of which an addressee has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know) any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Company of the Deposit Agreement or, if any such authorization, approval, consent, action, notice or filing is required, it will have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and will be in full force and effect.
Our opinions below are qualified to the extent that they may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, usury, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally, (ii) duties and standards imposed on creditors and parties to contracts, including, without limitation, requirements of materiality, good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and (iii) general equitable principles. Furthermore, we express no opinion as to the availability of any equitable or specific remedy upon any breach of the Deposit Agreement, or to the successful assertion of any equitable defenses, inasmuch as the availability of such remedies or the success of any equitable defenses may be subject to the discretion of a court. We also express no opinion herein with
State Street Corporation
August 17, 2012
Page 3
respect to compliance by the Company with the securities or "blue sky" laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States or of any foreign jurisdiction. In addition, we express no opinion and make no statement herein with respect to the antifraud laws of any jurisdiction.
On the basis of, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that, (i) when issued and delivered by the Company to the Depositary against payment therefor in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement and the Deposit Agreement, and subject to the final terms of the Preferred Stock not resulting in a default under or a breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company and complying with any requirement or restriction imposed by any court or governmental entity having jurisdiction over the Company, the Preferred Stock will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and (ii) when issued and delivered against payment therefor as described in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, upon the deposit with the Depositary of the Preferred Stock underlying the Shares, subject to the final terms of the Deposit Agreement and the Shares not resulting in a default under or a breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company and complying with any requirement or restriction imposed by any court or governmental entity having jurisdiction over the Company, the Shares will be legally issued and will entitle the holders thereof to the rights specified in the Deposit Agreement.
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions and is rendered as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of the foregoing sources of law or subsequent developments in law or changes in facts or circumstances that might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on or about August 20, 2012, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein and in the related Base Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
 


