FILE:STT/STT-8K-20120209090810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2012, at 12:30 p.m. (EST), State Street Corporation ("State Street") will webcast a presentation to investors and analysts by Joseph L. Hooley, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Edward J. Resch, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott F. Powers, President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors; Joseph C. Antonellis, Vice Chairman; Peter O'Neill, Executive Vice President, International; James S. Phalen, Executive Vice President and Head of Global Operations, Technology and Product Development; and Christopher Perretta, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer.
The slides that Messrs. Hooley, Resch, Powers, Antonellis, O'Neill, Phalen and Perretta will present are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference. The presentation will be accessible, in listen-only mode, on State Street's investor relations home page, at , and via telephone, at +1 (706) 679-5594 (Conference ID # 47095098) and +1 (888) 391-4233 (Conference ID # 47095098). Recorded replays of the webcast will be available on the website and via telephone at +1 (404) 537-3406 (Conference ID # 47095098) and +1 (855) 859-2056 (Conference ID# 47095098) beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (EST) that day. The telephone replay will be available for approximately two weeks following the webcast.
www.statestreet.com/stockholder
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 attached to this Form 8-K, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Item 7.01, such Exhibit 99.1 or any of the information contained therein be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
In late 2007, Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Co. filed a lawsuit against State Street in New York federal court alleging, among other things, that, based on disclosures made to Prudential, State Street did not manage the active fixed-income strategies in which certain of Prudential's clients were invested in a manner consistent with the standard of care required under ERISA. Prudential sought damages in excess of the compensation it received from the fair fund established by State Street in February 2010 in connection with State Street's settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Massachusetts Attorney General and the Massachusetts Securities Division of the Office of the Secretary of State. Prudential is also seeking related costs, including pre-judgment interest and attorneys' fees.
On February 3, 2012, the Court issued a ruling finding that Prudential is entitled to a payment from State Street, after adjustment for the compensation received from the fair fund, in the amount of $28.1 million. This award may ultimately be increased if the Court awards Prudential interest and costs. State Street intends to appeal the Court's February 3, 2012 ruling. The timing of the remaining phases of further trial proceedings or of any appeal can not currently be determined.
 
As previously disclosed, three other lawsuits by investors in the active fixed-income strategies underlying the February 2010 settlement remain pending. Two of these cases are in federal court in Texas. The other case is in federal court in New York. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits also seek to recover amounts in excess of their compensation from the fair fund established by the February 2010 settlement, along with pre-judgment interest, attorneys' fees and punitive damages.
State Street estimates that its exposure under the Prudential and three other lawsuits may be, in the aggregate, in a range from $0 to approximately $90 million. This estimated exposure range includes estimated pre-judgment interest and attorneys' fees, if awarded. The estimated exposure range does not include any potential awards of claimed punitive damages, which can not reasonably be estimated. The actual amount, if any, of State Street's ultimate aggregate liability under the Prudential and three other lawsuits may be more or less than the top of the estimated range. State Street has not established a reserve with respect to these matters.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws, including statements relating to State Street's estimated liability under the Prudential and three other lawsuits. Forward-looking statements are often, but not always, identified by such forward-looking terminology as "estimate," "intend," may," "seek," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "look," "believe," "will," "trend," "target," and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance, are inherently uncertain, are based on current assumptions that are difficult to predict and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in those statements, and those statements should not be relied upon as representing State Street's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to February 9, 2012.
Important factors that may affect future results and outcomes include, but are not limited to, the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and the associated uncertainty involved in estimating whether a matter will be determined in a manner adverse to State Street and, if so, the amount of damages and related costs that will be awarded. Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements are set forth in State Street's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and State Street's subsequent SEC filings. State Street encourages investors to read these filings, particularly the sections on risk factors, for additional information with respect to any forward-looking statements and prior to making any investment decision. The forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K speak only as of the date hereof, February 9, 2012, and State Street does not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after that date.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 9, 2012
 
 
 

State Street prepares its consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In addition, State Street presents financial information on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as "operating" basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables presented below reconcile financial information prepared on an operating basis to financial information prepared and reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The ratio of tangible common equity to adjusted tangible assets, or TCE ratio, is calculated by dividing consolidated total common shareholders' equity by consolidated total assets, after reducing both amounts by goodwill and other intangible assets net of related deferred taxes. Total assets reflected in the TCE ratio also exclude cash balances on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks in excess of required reserves. The TCE ratio is not required by GAAP or by bank regulations, but is a metric used by management to evaluate the adequacy of State Street's capital levels. Since there is no authoritative requirement to calculate the TCE ratio, our TCE ratio is not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures disclosed or used by other companies in the financial services industry. Tangible common equity and adjusted tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
The tier 1 risk-based common, or tier 1 common, ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital, which is calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements, less non-common elements, including preferred stock and qualifying trust preferred securities, by total risk-weighted assets, which assets are also calculated in accordance with applicable bank regulatory requirements. The tier 1 common ratio is not required by GAAP or on a recurring basis by bank regulations. However, this ratio has been used by the Federal Reserve in connection with its evaluation of the capital adequacy of certain large U.S. bank holding companies. In addition, management is currently monitoring this ratio, along with the other capital ratios, in evaluating State Street's capital levels and believes that, at this time, the ratio may be of interest to investors.
The table set forth below presents the calculations of State Street's ratios of tangible common equity to total tangible assets, and tier 1 common capital to total risk-weighted assets.
 
The table set forth below reconciles State Street's capital ratios calculated in accordance with currently applicable bank regulatory requirements, as well as the tier 1 common ratio, to estimated ratios calculated in accordance with Basel III as State Street currently understands the impact of the Basel III requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
State Street prepares its consolidated statement of income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In addition, State Street presents financial information on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as "operating" basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables presented below reconcile financial information prepared on an operating basis to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 


