FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20041112173035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K amends the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2004.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)
Financial statements of business acquired.
 
IMC Global Inc. (n/k/a Mosaic Global Holdings Inc. ("IMC")):
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of IMC as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, found on pages 43 through 99 of IMC's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A (Amendment No. 1), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 14, 2004, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of IMC for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, included in IMC's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2004, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Cargill Fertilizer Businesses:
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses as of and for the year ended May 31, 2004, found on pages F-4 through F-24 of The Mosaic Company's Form S-4 Registration Statement (Amendment No. 4) (Registration No. 333-114300), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 17, 2004, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses for the quarter ended August 31, 2004 appear on pages 3 through 20 of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1).
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for each of the years included in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, appear on pages 21 through 55 of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1).
 
The audited financial statements of Saskferco Products Inc. as of May 31, 2004 and 2003 and for each of the years included in the three-year period ended May 31, 2004, and the unaudited financial statements as of and for the three months ended August 31, 2004 and 2003, appear on pages 56 through 88 of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1).
 
(b)
Pro forma financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of the management of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses, all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods. The statements are condensed and, therefore, do not include all of the information and notes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for complete financial statements. For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and notes for the year ended May 31, 2004. The results of operations and cash flows for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
 
(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
(a) Organization and Nature of Business
 
Cargill Fertilizer Businesses (the Company) are comprised of wholly and majority owned subsidiaries of Cargill, Inc. (Cargill), divisions of Cargill, Inc. and subsidiaries, and investments accounted for by the equity method. The company is organized into the following four business units, which are engaged in phosphate production and the blending and global distribution of fertilizer products:
 
Cargill Phosphate Production operates mines and processing plants in Florida, which produce phosphate fertilizer and feed phosphate.
 
Cargill Fertilizantes, SA, is a leading producer and distributor of bulk and bag blended fertilizers in Brazil. It has blending plants that produce blended fertilizer and feed phosphate, a plant that granulates single super phosphate, and a port terminal. It also is a minority owner of Fertifos/Fosfertil, which operates phosphate and nitrogen chemical plants in Brazil.
 
Saskferco is a 50% owned joint venture between the Company and Crown Investments Corporation of Saskatchewan accounted for by the equity method, and is located in Saskatchewan, Canada. It produces granular urea and anhydrous ammonia for shipment to nitrogen fertilizer customers in western Canada and the northern tier of the United States.
 
Cargill Crop Nutrition markets fertilizer products and services to wholesalers, cooperatives, independent retailers and agents and other agricultural customers that, in turn, market these products and services to agricultural producers around the world. It operates fertilizer blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouses in eight countries, and maintains a sales presence in six more countries in North and South America, Europe and Asia.
 
(b) Statement Presentation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. These financial statements do not necessarily reflect the financial position and results of operations of the Company in the future or what the financial position and results of operations would have been had the Company been an independent entity during the periods presented. Certain costs are charged to the Company by Cargill, Inc. and subsidiaries and are generally based on proportional allocations and in certain circumstances based on specific identification of applicable costs which management believes is reasonable.
 
 
 
(c) Basis of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses. Investments in companies where the Company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence (generally 20-50% ownership), are accounted for by the equity method. Other investments where the Company is unable to exercise significant influence over operating and financial decisions are accounted for at cost.
 
(d) Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of title to the customer, which is generally at the time the product is shipped. For certain export shipments, transfer of title occurs outside the United States. Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales.
 
(e) Income Taxes
 
Cargill, Incorporated and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries are members of a group which files a consolidated federal income tax return. Federal income taxes or tax benefits are allocated to each company on the basis of its individual taxable income or loss and tax credits included in the return. Deferred income taxes are recognized for temporary differences between income for financial reporting purposes and income for tax purposes. A valuation allowance is recognized against any portion of deferred tax assets when realization of the deferred tax asset is not considered more likely than not.
 
(f) Foreign Currency Translation
 
Gains and losses resulting from translating the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, whose functional currency is the local currency, at the current rate are included directly in other comprehensive income. Translation gains and losses of foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency are included in net earnings currently.
 
(g) Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
 
(h) Short-Term Investments
 
Short-term investments include highly liquid investments with original maturities greater than 90 days, but less than one year.
 
(i) Inventories
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials and production labor and overhead, and is determined on a last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis for the Phosphate Production business unit and the weighted average cost basis for the remaining business units.
 
 
 
(j) Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depletion expenses for mining operations, including mineral reserves, are determined using the units-of-production method based on estimates of recoverable reserves. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. Depreciation is computed principally using the straight-line method over the following useful lives:
 
 
(k) Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets when events and circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Once an indication of a potential impairment exists, recoverability of the respective assets is determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets relate, to the carrying amount of such operation. If the carrying value is considered impaired, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds fair value.
 
(l) Environmental Costs
 
Provisions for estimated costs are recorded when environmental remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. In determining the provisions, the Company uses the most current information available, including similar past experiences, available technology, regulations in effect, the timing of remediation and cost-sharing arrangements.
 
(m) Accounting Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
(n) Derivative and Hedging Activities
 
The Company utilizes various types of derivative products (principally options, futures and currency swaps) to hedge currency and raw material cost risks arising from certain of its assets and liabilities. The Company recognizes all derivative instruments in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in such fair values recognized immediately in earnings unless specific hedging criteria are met. Effective changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts net earnings and all ineffective changes in fair value are recorded currently in net earnings.
 
 
 
(2) Inventories
 
The components of inventories are as follows:
 
 
(3) Segment Information
 
The Company has four reportable business segments described in Note 1 that are engaged in phosphate production and the blending and global distribution of fertilizer products. These business segments are differentiated by their products and the customers that they serve. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. Inter-segment net sales are made under terms that approximate market value.
 
 
 
 
Financial information relating to the Company's operations by geographic area was as follows:
 
 
(4) Marketing Agreement
 
The Company and Lifosa A.B. in Lithuania mutually agreed to terminate a marketing agreement effective July 2004. Under this agreement, the Crop Nutrition segment had previously marketed exported phosphate products produced by Lifosa in Lithuania. The Company received an early termination fee of $6.0 million in May 2004 since the agreement was originally scheduled to expire in August 2008. Certain contract termination provisions were not completed until the first quarter of the year ended May 31, 2005; therefore, income was recognized and included in other operating income on the consolidated statement of operations in fiscal 2005 related to the early termination. The after-tax gain on this contract termination of approximately $3.9 million was recognized in the three month period ended August 31, 2004.
 
(5) Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
In conjunction with certain proposed amendments to the Indentures governing certain debt securities of Mosaic Global Holdings Inc. (formerly known as IMC Global Inc.) (IMC), The Mosaic Company (Mosaic), Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC and Mosaic Crop Nutrition, LLC (Mosaic Crop Nutrition) will become full and unconditional guarantors of the amended debt securities of IMC.
 
Prior to May 31, 2004, Cargill Fertilizer, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Cargill, Incorporated (Cargill), was a separate legal entity included in the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses and was primarily composed of Cargill's phosphate production operations in Florida. Effective June 1, 2004, in anticipation of the then pending combination between Cargill's crop nutrition business units and IMC, substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Cargill Fertilizer, Inc. were transferred and conveyed to Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a then wholly-owned subsidiary of Cargill Fertilizer, Inc.
 
Prior to May 31, 2004, Cargill U.S. Crop Nutrition, a division of Cargill (United States Distribution), was comprised of a U.S. wholesale fertilizer distribution business. Effective June 1, 2004, in
 
 
 
anticipation of the then pending combination between Cargill's crop nutrition business units and IMC, substantially all of the assets and liabilities of United States Distribution were transferred and conveyed to Mosaic Crop Nutrition, a Delaware limited liability company and a then wholly-owned subsidiary of Cargill.
 
On the closing of the Cargill merger, Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC and Mosaic Crop Nutrition, LLC were contributed to Mosaic by Cargill Fertilizer, Inc. and Cargill, respectively.
 
The following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for Cargill Fertilizer, Inc. and United States Distribution, individually and on a combined basis, as well as the non-guarantor entities of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses. Condensed consolidating financial information is presented for Cargill Fertilizer, Inc., rather than for Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC, and for United States Distribution, rather than Mosaic Crop Nutrition, as planned full and unconditional guarantors of certain IMC debt, to conform to the earlier presentation of such financial information for the years ended May 31, 2004 and 2003 notwithstanding the fact that the transfer of assets described above were effective as of June 1, 2004. As part of the Cargill transactions, the net financing liability to Cargill was not transferred to Mosaic. The balance sheet line items entitled Cash Management Account with Cargill, Inc. and Due to Cargill, Inc. and affiliates (both current and long-term) will not be part of the new combined entity. The related statement of operations line item entitled Interest on debt with Cargill, Inc. and affiliates represents the interest expense (income) on the balances due to/(from) Cargill.
 
 
 
Consolidating Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
Consolidating Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
Consolidating Statement of Operations
 
 
 
 
Consolidating Statement of Operations
 
 
 
 
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
(5) Guarantees
 
The Company issued guarantees to financial institutions in Brazil related to amounts owed the institutions by certain of its customers. The terms of the guarantees are approximately equal to the terms of the related financing arrangements. In the event that the customers default on their payments to the institutions and the Company would be required to perform under the guarantees, the Company has obtained collateral from the customers. As of August 31, 2004, the maximum potential future payment under the guarantees was $41.8 million.
 
(6) Subsequent Events
 
On October 22, 2004, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Contribution dated as of January 26, 2004, by and among IMC Global Inc. (now known as Mosaic Global Holdings Inc.), Global Nutrition Solutions, Inc. (now known as The Mosaic Company) ("Mosaic"), GNS Acquisition Corp., Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill") and Cargill Fertilizer, Inc., as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger and Contribution, dated as of June 15, 2004, and as subsequently amended by Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger and Contribution, dated as of October 18, 2004 (the "Merger and Contribution Agreement"), (i) GNS Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Mosaic, merged with and into IMC (the "Merger"), with IMC surviving the Merger and (ii) Cargill and certain of its affiliates (the "Cargill Contributing Corporations") contributed equity interests in certain entities owning all or substantially all of Cargill's fertilizer businesses (the "Contribution" and, together with the Merger, the "Cargill Transactions"). At the effective time of the Merger, IMC's corporate name was changed from IMC Global Inc. to Mosaic Global Holdings Inc.
 
Pursuant to the Merger, each outstanding share of IMC's common stock, par value $1.00 per share, was converted into and became the right to receive one share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Mosaic ("Mosaic Common Stock"). In addition, in the Merger each outstanding share of IMC's 7.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares, par value $1.00 per share, was converted into and became the right to receive one share of Mosaic's 7.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares, par value $.01 per share. As consideration for the Contribution, the Cargill Contributing Corporations received shares of Mosaic Common Stock representing approximately 66.5% of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (after giving effect to the Cargill Transactions), in addition to 5,458,955 shares of Mosaic's Class B common stock, par value $.01 per share. Immediately following the consummation of the Cargill Transactions, the former holders of IMC's Common Stock owned approximately 33.5% of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
 
In connection with the execution of the Merger and Contribution Agreement, Cargill and Mosaic also entered into an Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of January 26, 2004 (the "Investor Rights Agreement"), which was amended on October 22, 2004 to add as parties thereto the Cargill Contributing Corporations other than Cargill. The Investor Rights Agreement provides for, among other things, Cargill and IMC to designate seven and four director nominees, respectively, with respect to each election of Mosaic's board of directors during the four-year period following completion of the Cargill Transactions.
 
The Cargill Fertilizer Businesses suffered property damage during Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne in August and September 2004. In particular, on September 5, 2004, a breach of the active phosphogypsum stack at Mosaic's Riverview facility occurred due to excessive winds from Hurricane Frances, resulting in approximately 65 million gallons of partially-treated fertilizer process water being released into nearby Archie Creek. In addition, the recent hurricanes resulted in lost
 
 
 
production at Mosaic and IMC of approximately 182,000 and 140,000 tons, respectively, of granulated product (DAP/MAP/TSP/MicroEssentials), as well as expenses relating to the handling and treatment of water resulting from massive rainfall that resulted in raised water levels in certain gypsum stacks and water retention ponds. The release described above could result in potential enforcement actions from governmental authorities, claims from private parties and future regulatory challenges. Within several days following the impact of Hurricane Frances, the phosphogypsum stack was repaired and Mosaic's Riverview facility is expected to be able to operate at full capacity without ongoing effects resulting from this hurricane. Although Mosaic does not expect that this release will be material to the ongoing operations of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses, it may affect future regulatory and permitting requirements for Mosaic.
 
These hurricanes are also expected to affect the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses' results of operations for the second quarter of 2004 due in part to an anticipated decrease in revenue as a result of lost production and in part to charges associated with certain water treatment, repair and related cleanup efforts. In particular, the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses' second quarter results will include an estimated loss due to the impact from these hurricanes that resulted in lost production of the approximately 182,000 tons of granulated product (DAP/MAP/MicroEssentials) described above. The second quarter results also include a charge for the handling and treatment of water resulting from excessive rainfall from the hurricanes, as described above. While Mosaic's assessment of the total costs of such water handling is ongoing, the current estimated cost is approximately $7 million.
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. and Subsidiaries
So PauloSPBrazil
 
1. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. (the "Company") and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income (loss), changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, all expressed in United States dollars. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
2. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
3. The accompanying financial statements have been translated from Brazilian reais into United States dollars in accordance with the standards set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, for the purposes of consolidation and the equity method of accounting by the Company's investors.
 
4. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
5. As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the Company changed its method of accounting for scheduled maintenance costs. In addition, as also discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."
 
/s/ Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Auditores Independentes
 
So Paulo, Brazil
June 2, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. ("Fertifos" or the "Company"), a privately held company, was formed in 1992 to participate in the Brazilian government auction and privatization of its controlling interest in its phosphate mining resources in Brazil. Fertifos was successful in the privatization, acquiring a controlling interest in Fertilizantes Fosfatados S.A. Fosfertil ("Fosfertil") and its subsidiary Ultrafertil S.A. ("Ultrafertil").
Description of Business
 
Fertifos and subsidiaries are engaged principally in the production of mineral nutrients, including phosphate, which are used in the production of fertilizers, as well as in the manufacture and sale of fertilizers with nitrogen and chemical products and in the operation of its own multiuse port terminal. Fertifos' operations are located in Brazil.
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company's majority-owned subsidiaries, Fertilizantes Fosfatados S.A. Fosfertil, Ultrafertil S.A. and UF Distribuidora de Combustveis Ltda. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Basis of Presentation
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions have been made by management concerning, among others, the selection of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, provisions for contingent liabilities, determination of asset retirement obligations, deferred income tax valuation allowances, and the Company's pension plan obligations. Actual results may vary from those estimates.
Use of Estimates
 
The functional currency of Fertifos and its subsidiaries is the Brazilian real and, as such, amounts included in the statements of income are translated at rates which approximate actual exchange rates at the date of the related transaction. Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect as of the date of the balance sheet. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of shareholders' equity.
Translation of Foreign Currency Financial Statements
 
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses that are reflected in the consolidated statement of income as foreign exchange.
Foreign Currency Transactions
 
Cash and cash equivalents include time deposits and readily marketable securities with original maturity dates of three months or less.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Investments in marketable securities denominated in United States dollars are classified as trading and are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices with unrealized gains and losses included in nonoperating income. The Company recorded unrealized holding gains of $87, $89, and $28 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, on its portfolio of trading securities.
Marketable Securities
 
 
 
Accounts receivable are stated net of an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is recorded in an amount considered by management to be sufficient to absorb probable future losses related to uncollectible accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $2,740 and $2,301 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Trade Accounts Receivable
 
Fertifos enters into various derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency fluctuations and interest rates. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Effective January 1, 2001, Fertifos adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 133 and 138, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". SFAS No. 133 and No. 138 established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities. The adoption of SFAS No. 133 did not have a material effect on the Company.
Derivatives
 
The Company's derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet based on quoted market prices or based on the present value of discounted cash flows. The Company's derivative financial instruments have not been designated as accounting hedges under SFAS No. 133 and, as such, changes in the fair value are recognized currently in operations as a part of foreign exchange in the statements of income.
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of weighted average cost or market.
Inventories
 
Recoverable taxes include prepaid and recoverable income and social contribution taxes, as well as value-added taxes paid on the acquisition of raw materials and other services which can be used to offset future similar tax liabilities. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the recoverable taxes will not be realized.
Recoverable Taxes
 
Prior to January 1, 2002 expenses for scheduled plant maintenance and related shutdowns were deferred and amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated period of benefit, generally to the date of next scheduled shutdown. Effective January 1, 2002, all related scheduled plant maintenance expenses are expensed as incurred (see Note 2).
Maintenance Programs
 
The Company maintains spare parts for its machinery and equipment in quantities deemed sufficient to support operations and maintenance programs. Such quantities are generally in excess of quantities expected to be used or capitalized within one year, given the specialty nature of the parts and their availability. As spare parts are eventually used, they are either capitalized as part of property, plant or equipment and subsequently depreciated over their remaining useful lives, or expensed as part of operating expenses. Based on the nature of these spare parts and historical usage patterns, spare parts destined for eventual capitalization or held in quantities not expected to be utilized within the next year are classified as other noncurrent assets and are subject to impairment analysis along with the Company's other long-lived assets.
Spare Parts
 
Property, plant and equipment, including mining rights, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Major renewals and improvements that extend the useful lives of the assets are capitalized, while routine maintenance and repairs are
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
 
 
expensed as incurred. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of assets. Useful lives for property, plant and equipment are as follows:
 
 
Mining rights are being amortized using the straight-line method over a period of 50 years, which represents the estimated weighted-average remaining life of the Company's mining properties based on estimated proven and probable mineral reserves. Mining exploration and development costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Fertifos capitalizes interest on borrowings during the construction period of major capital projects. The capitalized interest is recorded as part of the asset to which it relates and is amortized over the asset's estimated useful life (see Note 7).
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets". Long-lived assets deemed held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or fair value. Long-lived assets held for use are subject to an impairment assessment if the carrying value is no longer deemed recoverable based upon an analysis of undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, or groups of assets for which the related identifiable cash flows are largely independent of other groups of assets. The amount of the impairment, if any, is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The adoption of this statement in 2002 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
Impairment of Long-lived Assets
 
The Company provides for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred income taxes are recognized for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards that result from events that have been recognized either in the financial statements or the income tax returns, but not both. The measurement of current and deferred income tax liabilities and assets is based on provisions of enacted tax laws. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Income Taxes
 
Sales of mineral products are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable, and has been earned. Revenue is recognized when risk and title to the product transfer to the customer, which generally occurs at the time the shipment is made. Gross sales are reduced by discounts related to promotional programs and sales taxes to arrive at net sales.
Revenue Recognition
 
Expenditures related to ongoing compliance with environmental regulations are charged to expense as incurred. These ongoing programs are designed to minimize the environmental impact of the Company's activities. Prior to January 1, 2003, liabilities for final site reclamation and restoration costs associated with the Company's mining properties were recorded when the respective reclamation and restoration strategies were able to be reasonably determined and the related costs reasonably estimated. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
Environmental, Site and Restoration Costs
 
 
 
adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated retirement costs, including those final site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities (see Note 2).
 
The components of comprehensive income include gains and losses on foreign currency translation adjustments, which are reported net of tax.
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires additional disclosures by guarantors about obligations under guarantees that it has issued. This statement also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of obligations undertaken in issuing guarantees. The disclosure requirements were effective for financial statements of interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The initial recognition and initial measurement requirements were applicable on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption of FIN 45 in 2003 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
New Accounting Pronouncements
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, "An interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements (ARB 51)." In December 2003, the FASB revised FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46) and codified certain FASB Staff Positions (FSPs) previously issued for FIN 46 in FASB Interpretation No. 46, Revised (FIN 46R). FIN 46 as originally issued and as revised by FIN46R, establishes consolidation criteria for entities for which control is not easily discernable under ARB 51. The adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46R in 2003 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 149). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 149 is applied prospectively and is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, except for provisions related to SFAS No. 133 implementation issues that have been effective for fiscal quarters that began prior to June 15, 2003, and certain provisions relating to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities or other securities that do not yet exist. The adoption of SFAS No. 149 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity (SFAS No.150). SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for how a company classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 150 requires that a company classify a financial instrument which is within the scope of SFAS No. 150 as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and to certain other instruments that existed prior to May 31, 2003 as of the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the December 31, 2002 and 2001 financial statements to the 2003 presentation, for comparative purposes.
Reclassifications
 
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
 
Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations", which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated retirement costs, including those site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities. The Company's asset retirement obligations primarily include final site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, these asset retirement obligations are recorded at their present value when incurred, with a corresponding amount capitalized as part of property, plant and equipment. The related asset retirement obligations will be accreted to their estimated future values on the estimated date that such obligations will be paid, while the asset will subsequently be depreciated over the remaining estimated useful life.
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $807, net of tax of $416, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2003, the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation was $2,108, which is recorded as part of other long-term liabilities. There were no significant changes in the components of the liability during 2003. The associated amount capitalized as part of the Company's property, plant and equipment, including mining rights, was $726 at December 31, 2003, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of $161.
 
Prior to January 1, 2002 expenses for scheduled plant maintenance and related shutdowns were deferred and amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated period of benefit, generally to the date of the next scheduled shutdown. Effective January 1, 2002, all related scheduled plant maintenance costs are expended as incurred. The Company believes that the new method better reflects the nature of the expenses and that it is in line with the guidance provided by Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-88, "Planned Major Maintenance Expense", and industry practice. As a result of the change, the Company recorded a charge of $9,092, net of tax of $4,683, as a cumulative effect of accounting change related to plant maintenance in 2002.
Scheduled Plant Maintenance
 
 
 
The pro forma effects on net income showing retroactive application of the accounting changes are as follows:
 
 
3. ACQUISITIONS OF MINORITY INTERESTS
 
On February 15, 2001, Fertifos acquired 3,602,223,939 shares of common stock of Fosfertil (approximately 3.328%) from an existing minority interest for a total purchase price of $21,294. Fertifos paid $21,294 immediately upon consummation of the transaction and simultaneously entered into a real denominated note payable due in eight installments through January 2004, with interest at 6%, monetarily adjusted by IGP-M, swapped to United States dollars. On August 7, 2001, Fertifos acquired an additional 0.557% of the outstanding common stock of Fosfertil over the counter for approximately $3,100. In November 2001, Fosfertil's Board of Directors authorized the 2001 Preferred Stock Repurchase Plan, which provided for the reacquisition of up to 3,000,000 shares of Fosfertil's preferred stock. During December 2001, 994,700 shares of preferred stock (approximately 0.0048%) were repurchased at a total cost of $2,338.
 
The above share acquisitions have been accounted for as acquisitions of minority interests using the purchase method of accounting. The excess of the purchase price paid over the historical book value of the equity in net assets acquired from minority interests as a result of theses acquisitions, totaling $16,095, was allocated to property, plant and equipment, including mining rights, based on independent appraisals and internal and external valuation reports.
 
On April 19, 2002, the cancellation of 1,495,800 lots of one thousand preferred shares of Fosfertil held in treasury, without capital reduction, was approved. In July 2002, Fosfertil's Board of Directors authorized the acquisition of up to 400,000 lots of one thousand common shares and up to 3,000,000 lots of one thousand preferred shares, all without par value, for cancellation or to be held in treasury for subsequent sale, this acquisition not implying a capital reduction. As of December 31, 2002, Fosfertil had 137,900 lots of one thousand shares held in treasury, which were subsequently cancelled in 2003. At December 31, 2003, no shares remained in treasury.
 
4. GAIN ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS
 
The amount refers to the 4.7% investment held by Ultrafertil S.A. in MRS Logstica S.A., which was transferred to current assets in 2001 and sold at the beginning of 2002. The Company realized proceeds from the sale of $9,592 and recognized a gain on sale of $4,572.
 
 
 
5. INVENTORIES
 
 
6. RECOVERABLE TAXES
 
 
In December 2001, Fertifos recognized approximately $10,602 in a tax credit related to the payment of PIS (Social Integration Contribution on Revenue) per Decrees No. 2,445/88 and No. 2,449/88, for the period from January 1989 to October 1995. The Brazilian Supreme Court declared such Decrees unconstitutional and they were legally eliminated through Resolution No. 49/95 of the Federal Senate. The Company recorded the credit based on the opinion of its legal counsel, supported by decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals of the Ministry of Finance. The remaining balance of the unused and available credit is recorded in other long-term assets and will be utilized to offset future tax liabilities of the same nature.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2003, Fertifos recorded a valuation allowance in the amount of $6,057 to reduce the balance of recoverable ICMS taxes (a value added tax) to an amount which management believes is more likely than not to be realized.
 
 
 
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET
 
 
Fertifos capitalized interest on construction in progress in the amounts of $2,047, $2,200, and $7,181 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Depreciation expense was $28,489, $25,748 and $31,984 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Amortization expense amounted to $220, $232 and $217 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
8. OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
 
 
9. INCOME TAXES
 
The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Brazilian statutory rate to the effective rate is as follows:
 
 
Brazilian corporations are permitted to determine a tax-deductible notional interest expense associated with shareholders' equity, which could either be paid in cash, in the form of a dividend, or used to increase capital stock in the statutory records. The amount of any such notional interest expense is generally determined by the product of the Brazilian corporate law shareholders' equity at the beginning of the year, less revaluation reserves, multiplied by the Brazilian long-term interest rate (TJLP), which is the official rate for government long-term loans, limited to the higher of 50% of net income or 50% of retained earnings at the beginning of the year. For financial reporting purposes, interest attributed to shareholders' equity is reflected as a dividend and charged to retained earnings.
 
The components of deferred income taxes are as follows:
 
 
10. SHORT-TERM DEBT
 
Fertifos's short-term debt, predominately held with commercial banks and denominated in United States dollars, is generally used to fund working capital requirements. The weighted average interest rate on short-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 was 4.2% and 5.3%, respectively.
 
 
 
11. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
Long-term debt obligations are summarized below:
 
 
As of December 31, 2003, certain land, property, plant and equipment having a net carrying value of approximately $106,900 have been mortgaged or otherwise encumbered against long-term debt.
 
A portion of the Company's long-term debt is with the International Finance CorporationIFC. Such financing contains certain restrictive covenants, which include restrictions as to the payments of dividends, as well as limits on capital expenditures and debt levels, among others. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2003. Furthermore, these covenants have not restricted the Company's ability to conduct its normal business or incur additional debt to fund its working capital or capital expenditure needs.
 
 
 
Principal maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2003 are as follows:
 
 
12. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Fertifos, as a result of its operating and financing activities, is exposed to changes in Brazilian interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect its results of operations and financial position. Fertifos uses derivative financial instruments for the purpose of minimizing the risks and/or costs associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. While these hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value, such fluctuations are generally offset by the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. The counterparties to these contractual arrangements are a small group of major financial institutions with which Fertifos also has other financial relationships. As such, credit risk arising from these contracts is not significant and Fertifos does not anticipate any significant losses. The net cash requirements arising from risk management activities are not expected to be material. Fertifos is not a party to leveraged derivatives.
Risk Management
 
Fertifos enters into foreign currency exchange swap and forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. Generally, the Company hedges only the net exposure of assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. The related derivative contracts are not designated as accounting hedges under SFAS No. 133. The fair value gains or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are recognized directly in earnings, and generally offset foreign exchange gains or losses on the related assets and liabilities being hedged. Maturities of these instruments generally are between three and six months.
Foreign Currency Risk Management
 
As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, Fertifos had cross-currency swaps outstanding with notional principal amounts of $42,700 and $35,000 and mark-to-market losses of $576 and $5, respectively, which were recognized in foreign exchange in the statements of income and offset the gains and losses from the assets and liabilities being hedged.
 
As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, Fertifos had forward contracts outstanding with notional principal amounts of $44,684 and $42,004 and mark-to-market losses of $1,196 and $333, respectively, which were recognized in foreign exchange in the statements of income and offset the gains and losses from the assets and liabilities being hedged.
 
As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, Fertifos had foreign exchange interbank certificates of deposits ("CDI") to dollar swaps outstanding with notional principal amounts of $27,914 and $14,212, respectively, and mark-to-market losses of $6,664 and $71, respectively, which were recognized in foreign exchange in the statements of income and offset the gains and losses from the assets and liabilities being hedged.
 
 
 
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates the fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. The fair value of marketable securities was determined based on similar instruments currently available to Fertifos. The carrying value of short-term debt approximates fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. The carrying value of long-term debt approximates fair value and was calculated based on interest rates currently available to Fertifos for similar borrowings.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
13. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Fertifos had 19,129,409,453 of authorized and outstanding common stock. At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on April 29, 2002, the shareholders approved an increase of the Company's capital stock in the amount of $1,081 through a reduction of retained earnings. This is an act permitted by the Brazilian corporate law. During 2002, 14,954 lots of one thousand shares of common stock were repurchased at a total cost of $167 and cancelled without capital reduction.
Capital Structure
 
As per paragraph 1 of article 193 of Law No. 6,404/76, 5% of statutory net income is attributed to a legal reserve of up to 20% of total statutory paid-in capital.
Legal Reserves
 
Dividends are payable in Brazilian reais based on retained earnings determined for Brazilian statutory purposes. Dividends may be converted to United States dollars and remitted to shareholders abroad provided that the nonresident shareholder's capital is registered with the Brazilian Central Bank.
Dividends
 
14. ACCRUAL FOR PENSION LIABILITY
 
A Fertifos subsidiary, Ultrafertil S.A. ("Ultrafertil") participates in a multiemployer defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans administered by the Fundao Petrobras de Seguridade Social ("Petros").
Employee Defined Benefit Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan
 
At December 31, 2003, Petros had 1,756 participants from Ultrafertil. Ultrafertil contributed $764 and $921 to the plan for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
In April 2001, Fosfertil, together with Petros, commenced the process of separating the multiemployer plan assets into seven individual, respective single-employer plans for Ultrafertil and the other participants. As management intended to withdraw from the plan and it was likely that the Company would incur its proportionate share of the pension and other post-retirement obligations related to Ultrafertil, at December 31, 2001 the Company recorded its estimated withdrawal obligation to the plan for the unfunded benefit obligation based on an actuarial estimate. The Company recorded additional pre-tax pension expense of $12,821, with approximately $4,359 recorded as a deferred tax asset.
 
The separation process was completed on August 29, 2002. Beginning January 1, 2002, the Company began accounting for the related pension and other post-retirement benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" and is presenting the required disclosures of SFAS No. 132, "Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits."
 
 
 
The following table shows information related to the Company's defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans as of and for the years ended December 31:
 
 
The following summarizes the components of the net periodic benefit cost recognized in the statements of income:
 
 
 
 
The weighted average assumptions used in determining the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit cost under the defined benefit plans are as follows:
 
 
The expected long-term rate of return on assets is based in consultation with the plan's investment advisors and actuaries. These rates are intended to reflect the average rates of earnings expected to be earned on the funds invested or to be invested to provide required plan benefits. The plan is assumed to continue in effect as long as assets are expected to be invested. In estimating the expected long-term rate of return on assets, appropriate consideration is given to historical performance for the major asset classes held or anticipated to be held by the plan and to current forecasts of future rates of return for those asset classes, considering such factors as projected long-term inflation rates, future interest yield curves and other economic projection data available in the market. Cash flow and expenses are taken into consideration to the extent that the expected returns would be affected by them.
 
The pension plan's weighted-average actual asset allocations, including plan target allocations, at the end of the plan year for 2003 and 2002, by category are as follows:
 
 
The plan's investment policies and strategies are aimed to reduce investment risk through diversification, considering such factors as the liquidity needs and funded status of plan liabilities, types and availability of financial instruments in the local market, general economic conditions and forecasts as well as the requirements under local pension plan law. Assets are sufficiently diversified to maintain a reasonable level of risk without imprudently sacrificing return, with target asset allocations based on expectations of asset performance over a time horizon of 12 months, considering defined actuarial targets and considering alternative scenarios. Specific investments within asset categories are based on analyses of risk and return of the portfolio as a whole.
 
Fertifos expects to contribute approximately $700 to its defined benefit plans in 2004.
 
In October 2001, the Company and Ultrafertil implemented a defined contribution plan for employees not covered under the multiemployer defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plans administered by Petros. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, the expenses related to Bradesco Previdncia e Seguros S.A. were $334, $327 and $109, respectively. The participants' contribution is based on their compensation at the rate of 2.7% for Fosfertil, and 2.0% for Ultrafertil.
Employee Defined Contribution Plan
 
 
 
15. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES
 
Fertifos provides phosphate and nitrogenous materials principally to the fertilizer industry in Brazil. Many of Fertifos' shareholders are engaged in this industry and buy a majority of Fertifos' production. The Company recorded net sales of $329,740, $243,381 and $247,554 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, to its shareholders. Sales to two related parties accounted for approximately 45%, 43% and 41% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Accounts receivable from shareholders were $1,007 and $1,306 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other current liabilities to shareholders were $4,772 and $3,410 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Fertifos is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including various tax and labor claims. Accruals for claims and lawsuits of $43,514 and $26,546 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are summarized as follows:
 
 
Labor mattersThe Company is a party to various labor claims made by its former employees, which are in various stages of litigation. Based on the advice of its legal counsel, the Company has accrued amounts representing management's estimate of probable losses related to these claims.
 
Disputed taxesThe Company has filed injunctions disputing certain aspects of the tax legislation related to federal income and social contribution taxes as well as changes to the legislation regarding PIS and COFINS tax (revenue taxes). Such taxes continue to be accrued in accordance with applicable legislation; however, the Company has suspended payment while these matters are being contested.
 
Other tax mattersThe Company is also party to a number of tax claims and assessments in the normal course of business for which provisions have been recorded representing management's best estimate of probable losses, based on the advice of its legal counsel and tax advisors.
 
After taking into account liabilities recorded for all of the foregoing matters, management believes that the ultimate resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on Fertifos' financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company recorded $9,145, $7,466 and $4,404 of expense for contingencies during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
 
 
17. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
On February 27, 2004, Fosfertil entered into an export prepayment financing arrangement with a bank in the amount of $15,000. This debt bears interest at 5.56% and is repayable in three annual principal commencing on February 16, 2007.
 
On March 25, 2004, Fosfertil entered into a pre-export financing arrangement with a bank in the amount of $30,000. This debt bears interest at 5.56% with maturity at January 30, 2009.
 
On May 24, 2004 and June 2, 2004 the Company paid dividends of $3,085 and $9,473, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004
 
 
SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Fertifos Administrao e Participao S.A. ("Fertifos" or the "Company"), a privately held company, was formed in 1992 to participate in the Brazilian government auction and privatization of its controlling interest in its phosphate mining resources in Brazil. Fertifos was successful in the privatization, acquiring a controlling interest in Fertilizantes Fosfatados S.A. Fosfertil ("Fosfertil") and its subsidiary Ultrafertil S.A. ("Ultrafertil").
Description of Business
 
Fertifos and subsidiaries are engaged principally in the production of mineral nutrients, including phosphate, which are used in the production of fertilizers, as well as in the manufacture and sale of fertilizers with nitrogen and chemical products and in the operation of its own multiuse port terminal. Fertifos' operations are located in Brazil.
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated interim financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies described in the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, and should be read in conjunction with the disclosures therein. In the opinion of management, these interim financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. Results of operations and cash flows for the first six months of the year are not necessarily indicative of full year results.
Basis of Presentation
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company's majority-owned subsidiaries, Fertilizantes Fosfatados S.A. Fosfertil, Ultrafertil S.A. and UF Distribuidora de Combustveis Ltda. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform with the current year presentation.
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions have been made by management concerning, among others, the selection of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, provisions for contingent liabilities, determination of asset retirement obligations, deferred income tax valuation allowances, and the Company's pension plan obligations. Actual results may vary from those estimates.
Use of Estimates
 
The functional currency of Fertifos and its subsidiaries is the Brazilian real and, as such, amounts included in the statements of income are translated at rates which approximate actual exchange rates at the date of the related transaction. Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect as of the date of the balance sheet. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of shareholders' equity.
Translation of Foreign Currency Financial Statements
 
 
 
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transactions gains and losses that are reflected in the consolidated statement of income as foreign exchange.
Foreign Currency Transactions
 
Accounts receivable are stated net of an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is recorded in an amount considered by management to be sufficient to absorb probable future losses related to uncollectible accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $2,553 and $2,842 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Trade Accounts Receivable
 
Fertifos enters into various derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency fluctuations and interest rates. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Effective January 1, 2001, Fertifos adopted Financial Accounting Standards BoardFASB Statement of Financial Accounting StandardSFAS No. 133 and No. 138, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". SFAS No. 133 and No. 138 established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities.
Derivatives
 
The Company's derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet based on quoted market prices or based on the present value of discounted cash flows. The Company's derivative financial instruments have not been designated as accounting hedges under SFAS No. 133 and, as such, changes in the fair value are recognized currently in operations as a part of foreign exchange in the statements of income.
 
Expenditures related to ongoing compliance with environmental regulations are charged to expense as incurred. These ongoing programs are designed to minimize the environmental impact of the Company's activities. Prior to January 1, 2003, liabilities for final site reclamation and restoration costs associated with the Company's mining properties were recorded when the respective reclamation and restoration strategies were able to be reasonably determined and the related costs reasonably estimated. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations", which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated retirement costs, including those final site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities (see Note 2).
Environmental, Site and Restoration Costs
 
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
 
Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations", which addresses financial, accounting and reporting standards for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated retirement costs, including those site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities. The Company's asset retirement obligations primarily include site restoration and reclamation costs associated with the Company's mining rights and operating facilities. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, these asset retirement obligations are recorded at their present value when incurred, with a corresponding amount capitalized as part of property, plant and equipment. The related asset retirement obligations will be accreted to their estimated future values on the estimated date when such obligations will be paid, while the asset will subsequently be depreciated over the remaining estimated useful life.
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
 
 
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $807, net of tax of $416, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, as follows:
 
 
At June 30, 2004, the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation was $2,043, which is recorded as part of other long-term liabilities. There were no significant changes in the components of the liability during the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003. The associated amount capitalized as part of the Company's property, plant and equipment, including mining assets, was $666 at June 30, 2004, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of $159.
 
3. INVENTORIES
 
 
4. OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
 
 
5. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
 
 
 
6. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
Long-term debt obligations are summarized below:
 
 
On February 27, 2004, Fosfertil entered into a pre-export financing arrangement with a bank in the amount of $15,000. This debt bears interest at 5.56%, payable semi-annually, with principal repayable in three annual installments commencing on February 16, 2007.
 
On March 25, 2004, Fosfertil entered into a pre-export financing arrangement with a bank in the amount of $30,000. This debt bears interest at 5.56%, with semi-annual principal and interest payments commencing on January 30, 2007 and a final maturity in 2009.
 
As of June 30, 2004, certain land, property, plant and equipment having a net carrying value of approximately $106,830 have been mortgaged or otherwise encumbered against long-term debt.
 
A portion of the Company's long-term debt is with the International Finance CorporationIFC. Such financing contains certain restrictive covenants, which include restrictions as to the payments of dividends, as well as limits on capital expenditures and debt levels, among others. The Company was
 
 
 
in compliance with all such covenants at June 30, 2004. Furthermore, these covenants have not restricted the Company's ability to conduct its normal business or incur additional debt to fund its working capital or capital expenditure needs.
 
7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Fertifos, as a result of its operating and financing activities, is exposed to changes in Brazilian interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect its results of operations and financial position. Fertifos uses derivative financial instruments for the purpose of minimizing the risks and/or costs associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. While these hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value, such fluctuations are generally offset by the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. The counterparties to these contractual arrangements are a small group of major financial institutions with which Fertifos also has other financial relationships. As such, credit risk arising from these contracts is not significant and Fertifos does not anticipate any significant losses. The net cash requirements arising from risk management activities are not expected to be material. Fertifos is not a party to leveraged derivatives.
Risk Management
 
Fertifos enters into foreign currency exchange swap and forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. Generally, the Company hedges only the net exposure of assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. The related derivative contracts are not designated as accounting hedges under SFAS No. 133. The fair value gains or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are recognized directly in earnings, and generally offset foreign exchange gains or losses on the related assets and liabilities being hedged. Maturities of these instruments generally are between three and six months.
Foreign Currency Risk Management
 
As of June 30, 2004 and 2003, Fertifos had cross-currency swaps outstanding with notional principal amounts of $5,029 and $55,500, respectively. Unrealized mark-to-market gains of $29 and losses of $1,491 were recorded in the balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to these swaps.
 
As of June 30, 2003, Fertifos had forward contracts outstanding with aggregate notional principal amounts of $27,963. Unrealized mark-to-market losses of $2,507 were recorded as of June 30, 2003 related to such contracts. These forward positions were subsequently liquidated in 2004.
 
As of June 30, 2004 and 2003, Fertifos had foreign exchange interbank certificates of deposits ("CDI") to dollar swaps outstanding with notional principal amounts of $28,258 and $28,763, respectively. Unrealized mark-to-market losses of $3,710 and $8,891, respectively, were recorded in the balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to theses swaps.
 
Fertifos recorded net derivative losses of $1,141 and $20,901 for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to derivative contracts, which have been recorded in foreign exchange in the statements of income and offset the gains and losses from the assets and liabilities being hedged.
 
 
 
8. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Dividends are payable in Brazilian reais based on retained earnings determined for Brazilian statutory purposes. Dividends may be converted to United States dollars and remitted to shareholders abroad provided that the nonresident shareholders' capital is registered with the Brazilian Central Bank (BACEN).
Dividends
 
On May 24, 2004 and June 2, 2004, the Fertifos paid dividends of $3,085 and $9,476, respectively. On January 8, 2003 and June 3, 2003, the Fertifos paid dividends of $22,003 and $9,183, respectively.
 
9. ACCRUAL FOR PENSION LIABILITY
 
A Fertifos subsidiary, Ultrafertil S.A. ("Ultrafertil"), participates in a defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans administered by the Fundao Petrobras de Seguridade Social ("Petros"). Ultrafertil contributed $401 and $333 to the plan during the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Net periodic benefit cost was $248 and $337 for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Employee Defined Benefit Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan
 
10. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES
 
Fertifos provides phosphate and nitrogenous materials principally to the fertilizer industry in Brazil. Many of Fertifos' shareholders are engaged in this industry and buy a majority of Fertifos' production. The Company recorded net sales of $147,896 and $162,083 for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, to its shareholders. Sales to two related parties accounted for approximately 53% and 62% of net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accounts receivable from shareholders was $2,339 and $5,833 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Other current liabilities to shareholders were $19,234 and $10,633 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Trade accounts payable to shareholders were $162 and $85 at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
11. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
On October 18, 2004, Fertifos acquired 180,902,233 outstanding preferred shares of Fosfertil from an existing minority shareholder for a total purchase price of $1,796.
 
On November 3, 2004 the board of directors of Fosfertil approved the payment of dividends in the form of interest on shareholders' equity in the total amount of $23,376.
 
 
To the Shareholders of
Saskferco Products Inc.
 
We have audited the balance sheets of Saskferco Products Inc. as at May 31, 2004 and 2003 and the statements of operations and retained earnings and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended May 31, 2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). These standards require that we plan and perform an audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, these financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Saskferco Products Inc. as at May 31, 2004 and 2003 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended May 31, 2004 in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles.
 
//    D & T LLP
S
ELOITTE
OUCHE
Registered Chartered Accountants
 
Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada
June 10, 2004, except for Note 16, as to
which the date is August 5, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. STATUS OF THE CORPORATION
 
Saskferco Products Inc. ("Saskferco" or "the company") was incorporated under on July 14, 1988. Saskferco commenced commercial nitrogen fertilizer production on October 14, 1992.
The Business Corporations Act (Saskatchewan)
 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The financial statements of the company have been prepared by management in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (Canadian GAAP). These accounting principles are different in some respects from United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and the significant differences are described in Note 15. Amounts are stated in thousands of Canadian dollars unless otherwise indicated. Certain of the comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.
 
Since a determination of many assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses is dependent on future events, the preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions, which have been made using careful judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates. In the opinion of management, these financial statements have been properly prepared within the framework of the significant accounting policies summarized below:
 
a) Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash equivalents consist primarily of highly liquid investments with an original maturity of 90 days or less and are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
 
b) Investments
 
Short-term investments are highly liquid repo bonds with stated maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days. These investments are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value.
 
Corporate bond investments within the MTN Fund are carried at amortized cost. The fair value of these bonds is determined using quoted market prices.
 
c) Inventories
 
Stores inventories consist primarily of spare parts and are recorded at the lower of average cost and net realizable value. Natural gas inventories are recorded at the lower of average purchase cost and replacement value. Catalyst and resin are recorded at cost net of an allowance for consumption that is charged to cost of goods sold.
 
Fertilizer inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and market. Cost represents the direct costs of fertilizer production and is determined on a moving average basis. Market is defined as selling price less any costs to complete the sale.
 
d) Plant turnaround costs
 
Rotational plant maintenance costs, which consist primarily of planned major plant and equipment maintenance projects (also known as "turnarounds") are included in other assets and are charged to
 
 
 
cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis over the period until the next scheduled turnaround, which is typically 36 months. Costs incurred during unscheduled facility shutdowns are expensed in the current period.
 
e) Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, less applicable investment tax credits, and include the cost of renewals and betterments. When assets are sold or replaced, the recorded costs and related accumulated amortization are removed from the accounts, and any gains or losses are included in earnings. Repairs and maintenance are charged against earnings as incurred.
 
At the commencement of commercial operations, amortization on buildings, machinery and equipment is recognized in cost of goods sold using the straight-line method over the estimated service lives of the respective assets. Buildings are amortized over 25 years, while the amortization periods of machinery and equipment range from 3 to 25 years.
 
f) Income taxes
 
The company follows the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, future tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the carrying values and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and measured using the substantively enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
 
g) Employee future benefits
 
The company has made contributions of $600 (2003 - $500; 2002 - $500) to a defined contribution employee future benefit plan. These contributions are expensed as incurred.
 
h) Revenue recognition
 
Revenue from fertilizer sales is recognized when product is delivered to the end customer, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Funds received in advance of title transfer are classified as deferred revenue. Transportation costs incurred are classified in cost of goods sold.
 
i) Hedging activity
 
The company may use derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to well-defined financial and commodity price fluctuations. Gains and losses on these contracts, all of which constitute effective hedges, are deferred and recognized as a component of the related transaction.
 
j) Foreign currency translation
 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, other than the U.S. dollar denominated medium term notes, are translated at the rate of exchange in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated at rates prevailing at each transaction date. Exchange gains and losses are reflected in the Statement of Operations in the current year.
 
 
 
The company has a U.S. dollar revenue stream that has been identified as an effective hedge of the principal amount of the U.S. dollar denominated medium term notes. Consequently, this U.S. long-term debt is translated at the historical exchange rate of $1.1539 as further described in note 6.
 
Where the company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge interest payments on the long-term debt, the accrued interest is translated at the average foreign exchange translation rates specified in the forward contracts.
 
3. INVENTORIES
 
 
4. INVESTMENTSMTN FUND
 
The Saskferco MTN Fund (the "MTN Fund") was created pursuant to an agreement to provide for the prepayment or retirement of Saskferco's outstanding debt guaranteed by the Province of Saskatchewan (the Province) as described in Note 6. The MTN Fund is administered by a fund manager and amounts in the MTN Fund can only be invested in securities permitted by agreement.
 
The MTN Fund is restricted such that no amounts, including net earnings generated by investments, may be paid out of the MTN Fund except upon the consent of both Saskferco and the Province; however the Province is obliged to provide its consent in certain prescribed circumstances. Consent was received in April 2003 for Saskferco to draw $20,250 from the MTN Fund to finance construction of a urea ammonium nitrate (UAN) plant in 2004. This amount is included in the current portion of investments at May 31, 2003.
 
The company also classifies a portion of the MTN Fund in the current portion of investments to reflect amounts potentially available to repay the current portion of long-term debt at the year-end exchange rate.
 
The MTN Fund consists of the following:
 
 
 
 
As at May 31, 2004, all bonds in the portfolio will mature within 14 months, and yields range between 2.1% and 3.3%.
 
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
 
6. CREDIT FACILITY AND LONG-TERM DEBT
 
Credit Facility
 
The company has available a $40,000 short-term credit facility which has not been utilized at May 31, 2004 (2003$nil), secured by a general assignment of inventory and accounts receivable. Interest rates on this credit facility are based on prevailing bankers' acceptance rates plus .5%, and had the company used this facility, the weighted average interest rate in the current year was 3.33% (20033.23%). The short-term credit facility is subject to financial tests and other covenants as described below.
 
Long-Term Debt
 
 
The weighted average interest rate on the committed instalment loan in the current year was 4.00% (20034.48%).
 
 
 
The principal covenants on the short-term credit facility and the committed instalment loan require the company's current ratio to not, at any time, be less than 1.0:1; however this covenant may be breached by an amount not to exceed $5,000 for a period not to exceed 90 days. Additionally, the debt to equity ratio, calculated as debt less amounts held in the MTN Fund, cannot at any time exceed 1.75:1.
 
In July 1990, Saskferco borrowed U.S.$231,000 in medium term notes to finance construction of its nitrogen fertilizer plant. The medium term notes are guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Province of Saskatchewan (the "Province"). Interest payments on the medium term notes are due semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
 
The repayment of this U.S. dollar liability is being made from U.S. dollar revenue streams generated from fertilizer sales. The cash flow from these sales provides an effective hedge against fluctuations in the U.S./Canadian exchange rate. Saskferco records the U.S. dollar debt at the historical exchange rate of $1.1539, which was the rate in effect when the U.S. dollar revenue stream was identified as a hedge of the U.S. dollar liability. The principal payments on the notes and the U.S. dollar revenue streams from which they are paid are both translated at the historical exchange rate.
 
The quoted market value of Saskferco's outstanding medium term notes at May 31, 2004 was U.S.$95,400 (2003U.S.$127,700). The U.S./Canadian exchange rate at May 31, 2004 was $1.3609 (2003$1.3654).
 
Saskferco has entered into a Mortgage and Security Agreement whereby Saskferco has given security to the Province on the assets and undertakings of Saskferco in order to secure the Province against certain contingent losses or damages which it may incur if called pursuant to the guarantee of Saskferco's outstanding guaranteed debt obligations.
 
Long-term debt principal repayments, including medium term note repayments at the $1.1539 historical exchange rate and committed instalment loan payments, are due as follows:
 
 
7. SUBORDINATED NOTES
 
Effective May 28, 2004, the company agreed to authorize up to $55,556 Class A Subordinated Notes and up to $54,444 Class B Subordinated notes, due June 1, 2014.
 
All Subordinated Notes (the "Notes") are subordinate and junior in right of payment to the secured debt described in Note 6. Cash distribution of interest and principal is governed by a project agreement amongst the shareholders, and as such, holders of the Notes will receive no interest or principal payment or distribution unless secured debt obligations have first been paid in full. Under the
 
 
 
Subordinated Notes, any unpaid interest otherwise due is annually convertible to principal. In addition, Saskferco may, at its option, elect to prepay principal at any time without penalty. The company may request the Noteholders to subordinate their claims to certain counterparties with respect to long-term commodity purchase arrangements or swaps.
 
To May 31, 2004, interest on the Notes is payable at a rate of 5% and annually thereafter at a rate of CDOR plus 2%. CDOR Rate is defined as the annual average rates for Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances with a term of 90 days per Reuters "Canadian Interbank Bid BA Rates".
 
In accordance with the terms of a Note Purchase Agreement, two-thirds of the authorized Class A and Class B Subordinated Notes were issued on May 28, 2004, or $37,037 and $36,296 respectively.
 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
The provision for income taxes is different than the amount computed by applying the combined statutory Canadian federal and provincial income tax rates to income before income taxes. The reasons for the difference are similar in each comparative fiscal year, and are primarily as follows:
 
 
 
Temporary differences that give rise to the future income tax liability result due primarily to the company amortizing its property, plant and equipment at different rates for tax purposes compared to accounting purposes, and due to certain expenditures being immediately deductible for tax purposes that are deferred and amortized for accounting purposes. Additionally, when changes occur in the allocation of income between provincial tax jurisdictions, the impact on future income tax balances of these changes is recognized in the period the rates are substantively enacted.
 
9. SHARE CAPITAL
 
 
The company paid dividends of $4,172 and $73,333 to Class A and B shareholders in December 2003 and May 2004 respectively (2003$nil). In addition, the company paid dividends of $25 (2003$93; 2002$114) on Class C shares. In 2003, the company reduced the paid-up capital on its Class C shares by $1,147, without reducing the number of Class C shares outstanding.
 
 
 
10. NET CHANGE IN NON-CASH OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL
 
 
Interest paid during the year totalled $17,200 (2003$22,400; 2002$25,000) and taxes paid during the year totalled $21,100 (2003$5,600; 2002$4,200).
 
11. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Cargill Limited, a subsidiary of Cargill Incorporated, owns 50% of Saskferco's outstanding voting shares. Investment Saskatchewan Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Crown Investments Corporation of Saskatchewan (CIC), a Provincial Crown Corporation, owns 49% of Saskferco's outstanding voting shares. By virtue of their ownership, these entities are related to the company.
 
During the year, in the normal course of operations, all transactions with related parties occurred under normal trade terms at exchange amounts approximating prevailing market values. Related party transactions during the year and amounts outstanding at year end included in financial statement line items are as follows:
 
 
Sales
 
In 2004, the company entered into a three-year agreement whereby Cargill Incorporated has committed to annually purchase 50,000 tonnes of feed-grade urea from Saskferco, at a market-based formula price.
 
 
 
Cost of goods sold
 
The company has entered into a warehouse services agreement with Cargill Limited to supply labour, equipment and materials required for the operation of Saskferco's Carman, Manitoba bulk urea storage facility. Additionally, from time to time, Saskferco contracts storage capacity at certain Cargill Incorporated facilities.
 
Also included in cost of goods sold are amounts paid to Saskatchewan Power Corporation, Saskatchewan Water Corporation, and TransGas Limited, entities related to CIC.
 
Selling, general and administrative and accounts receivable
 
By agreement, in exchange for specified sales commissions, Cargill Incorporated and Cargill Limited act as Saskferco's exclusive marketing agents. In this capacity, they are responsible and assume full risk for the collection of all trade receivables and guarantee all amounts due to Saskferco from customers.
 
Interest expense
 
Saskferco's medium term notes are guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Province, owner of CIC. By agreement, Saskferco pays the Province a guarantee fee, which is calculated as a percentage of the difference between the balances of the company's outstanding medium term note debt and the Saskferco MTN Fund investments.
 
The company pays Saskatchewan Provincial Sales Taxes on all its taxable purchases, as well as Provincial corporate income taxes.
 
12. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Derivative financial instruments are utilized by the company to manage its exposure to well-defined market risks relating to commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
 
Unrecognized derivative financial instruments
 
The company uses certain derivative financial instruments that qualify for hedge accounting under Canadian GAAP and are not recognized in the balance sheet, as follows:
 
Natural gas supply contracts
 
Saskferco purchases all of its natural gas requirements through indexed price contracts with physical gas counterparties. The company periodically enters into natural gas swap and option contracts that have been designated as hedges against the future cost of committed and anticipated natural gas purchases to protect its future earnings and cash flows from the potential impact of adverse natural gas price fluctuations in the indexed contracts. The company uses these instruments to reduce price risk, not for speculative purposes.
 
 
 
Under these natural gas swap and option contracts, the company receives or makes payments based on the differential between the inherent hedged price and the corresponding index price of natural gas, and these financial instruments generally do not require the payment of significant net premiums prior to settlement. Upon settlement, these cash receipts or payments offset corresponding decreases or increases in Saskferco's natural gas supply cost.
 
As at May 31, 2004, the net cost of settled natural gas hedging transactions, which is included as a component of cost of sales or fertilizer inventory, was a $4,126 net realized loss (2003$3,247 net realized gain; 2002$12,704 net realized loss).
 
Foreign exchange swap contracts
 
The company also enters into foreign exchange swap contracts that have been designated as hedges to fix the exchange rate related to these specific U.S. dollar debt servicing obligations. As at May 31, 2004, outstanding foreign exchange swap contracts relate to medium term note interest payments occurring in June 2004.
 
Fair values of financial instruments
 
The fair value of financial instruments included in current assets and liabilities approximates the carrying amount of these instruments due to their short maturity. The fair value of long-term debt is determined using market prices for same or similar issues.
 
The fair value of derivative instruments represents an approximation of amounts that would be received (paid) to counterparties to settle these instruments at year-end.
 
The fair value of Saskferco's financial instruments is listed below:
 
 
13. COMMITMENTS
 
The following represents future annual payments for raw material purchases and under the company's operating leases:
 
 
 
 
The company has entered into agreements with raw material producers and suppliers to guarantee the supply of natural gas, water and electricity required in the company's production process. Additionally, the company has entered into a long-term agreement for the transportation of natural gas to its production facility. Natural gas and power agreements expire within 18 months, while natural gas transportation and water agreements expire in 2008 and 2010 respectively.
 
Operating lease commitments consist primarily of short and long-term leases for rail cars that expire at various dates through 2010, and contractual commitments for warehouse operations. The amount expensed for operating lease payments in the current year was $13,452 (2003$2,057; 2002$1,995).
 
14. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
In December 2001, the CICA issued Accounting Guideline No. 13 "Hedging Relationships" ("AcG-13"), outlining guidance on the identification, designation, documentation and effectiveness of hedging relationships, for the purpose of applying hedge accounting, and on the discontinuance of hedge accounting. This Guideline is applicable to hedging relationships in effect in fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2003, with earlier application encouraged. The company expects to adopt AcG-13 for its 2005 fiscal year beginning June 1, 2004, and with the intention of being eligible for hedge accounting under this standard, expects no material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows from adoption at that time.
 
In 2004, the company adopted the provisions of the CICA HandbookAccounting Sections 3063 "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" and 3475 "Disposal of Long-Lived Assets and Discontinued Operations". Section 3063 provides guidance on the recognition, measurement and disclosure of the impairment of long-lived assets. Section 3475 provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, presentation and disposal of long-lived assets to be disposed of. No events or changes in circumstances have occurred since the inception of the company indicating that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable. Additionally, the company has initiated no disposal activities, and all property, plant and equipment remain classified as held and used. There is no material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows from the adoption of these standards.
 
In March 2003, the CICA issued CICA HandbookAccounting Section 3110 "Asset Retirement Obligations", which establishes standards for the recognition, measurement and disclosure of asset retirement obligations and the related asset retirement costs. Section 3110 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset, and the liability is accreted at the end of each period through charges to operating expenses. This section is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2004, with earlier application encouraged. The company expects no material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows from adoption of this standard.
 
 
 
 
The company's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP, which, in some significant respects, differs from U.S. GAAP. As required by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the effects of these principal differences on the company's financial statements are quantified and described where indicated by reference below:
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
Year ended May 31
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
As at May 31
 
 
 
Net revenue or expense derived during the start-up phase of the company's urea ammonium nitrate plant prior to substantial completion and readiness for use was deferred under Canadian GAAP until commercial production levels were met, at which time amortization over the project's estimated useful life began. U.S. GAAP requires these costs be expensed as incurred. The net revenue deferred under Canadian GAAP and recognized as incurred under U.S. GAAP in 2004 was $447 (2003$nil).
 
 
 
 
Under Canadian GAAP, the company's derivative instruments that have not yet been settled are not recognized in the financial statements, and gains or losses arising from settled gas hedging transactions are deferred as a component of inventory until the product containing the hedged item is sold. At that time, both the natural gas purchase cost and the related hedging deferral are recorded as cost of goods sold. Additionally, as discussed in (c) below, gains or losses arising from settled foreign currency hedging transactions are recorded in sales, given the relationship between these gains or losses, the U.S. dollar revenue stream and the related long-term medium term note debt.
 
For U.S. GAAP purposes in the year ended May 31, 2002, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS 133, and the corresponding amendments under SFAS 138, which requires that derivative instruments, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, be recorded at fair value in the Balance Sheet. The accounting treatment of gains or losses resulting from fluctuations in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship. Any portion of the change in fair value of a derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting is recognized in income immediately. As at and for the years ended May 31, 2004 and 2003, the company has opted not to use hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
Under U.S. GAAP, the fair values of swap and option derivative instruments outstanding on May 31, 2004 and 2003 are not material. On the U.S. GAAP statement of operations in the current year, realized losses of $4,126 (2003$3,247 gains; 2002$12,704 losses) would be reclassified from cost of goods sold to other (income) expense as a result of not applying hedge accounting.
 
 
As indicated in Note 6, the repayment of the U.S. dollar long-term medium term note debt is being made from U.S. dollar revenue streams generated from fertilizer sales, which, for Canadian GAAP purposes, provides an effective hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Under this treatment, the annual principal repayment is recorded at the historical exchange rate of $1.1539, and any exchange losses arising from annually settling this hedging transaction is recorded against related sales.
 
U.S. GAAP, as a result of SFAS 133, , restricts the company's ability to use non-derivatives as hedging instruments. This is also consistent with SFAS 52, . As a result, the U.S. dollar sales are recorded at the prevailing exchange rate at the time the transaction occurred, and the annual U.S. dollar medium term note principal repayment, as well as the U.S. dollar medium term note balance at year end, are recorded at the current exchange rate with gains and losses flowing through the current period statement of operations.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Foreign Currency Translation
 
Due to the hedge accounting treatment under Canadian GAAP, a foreign exchange loss has already been realized as a reduction of sales. Recording the U.S. dollar revenue stream at the prevailing exchange rate would result in this realized loss being reclassified between sales and other (income) expense. In the current year, sales would increase by $3,602 (2003$7,296;
 
 
 
2002$7,881) with a corresponding increase in other (income) expense. An additional adjustment to remove the hedge accounting treatment under Canadian GAAP is required. In the current year a gain of $4,865 (2003$7,844 gain; 2002$7,444 gain) would be recorded in the US GAAP statement of operations. The impact on the outstanding medium term note debt from the movement of the prior year-end exchange rate of $1.3675 to the current rate $1.3609 on U.S. GAAP income statement in the current year is an unrealized gain of $387 (2003$17,507 gain; 2002$2,348 gain), which has been classified above in other income (expense). The U.S. GAAP balance sheet adjustment in the current year to reflect the medium term notes at the current rate rather than the historical rate of $1.1539 would be to increase liabilities and decrease shareholders' equity by $17,591 (2003$22,843).
 
Long-term debt principal repayments under U.S. GAAP, including medium term note and committed instalment loan payments at the current rate of 1.3609, are due as follows:
 
 
 
U.S. GAAP requires the disclosure of a statement of comprehensive income. Comprehensive income generally includes net income plus the results of certain shareholders' equity charges not reflected in the statement of operations. As at and for the year ended May 31, 2004, there were no shareholders' equity charges not reflected in the statement of operations under U.S. GAAP (2003$nil; 2002$nil).
 
 
Under U.S. GAAP, the company's short-term investment in highly liquid repo bonds is classified as trading securities, held principally for the purpose of selling in the near term. The fair value of this investment approximates its cost. Cash flows related to trading securities under U.S. GAAP are classified as operating activities rather than investing activities, which, on the statement of cash flows, would increase cash used in investing activities by $4,000 (2003decrease by $4,000; 2002$nil), and would increase cash provided by operating activities by a corresponding $4,000 (2003decrease by $4,000; 2002$nil).
 
Additionally, under U.S. GAAP, the company's corporate bond investments within the MTN Fund are classified as held-to-maturity, and are therefore carried at amortized cost. The fair value of these bonds is determined using quoted market prices.
 
 
 
 
The income tax adjustment reflects the impact on income taxes of the U.S. GAAP adjustments described above. The company has recorded a valuation allowance of $5,768 (2003$7,463) related to deferred tax assets arising from the cumulative loss on long-term debt, which the company does not expect to realize on. Under U.S. GAAP future income taxes are referred to as deferred income taxes.
 
 
In the current year, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 . SFAS 143 establishes standards for the recognition, measurement and disclosure of asset retirement obligations and the related asset retirement costs, and requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset, and the liability is accreted at the end of each period through charges to operating expenses. There is no material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows from the adoption of this standard.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
In December 2003, the FASB revised Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 "Consolidated Financial Statements". FIN No. 46 defines variable interest entities (VIE's) and provides guidance on when VIE's should be consolidated, and is effective for the company on June 1, 2005. The adoption of this standard will have no impact on the company.
 
 
 
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
As at May 31
 
 
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND RETAINED EARNINGS IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
Year ended May 31
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
Year ended May 31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The financial statements of the company have been prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (Canadian GAAP). These accounting principles are different in some respects from United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and the significant differences are described in Note 7. Amounts are stated in Canadian dollars unless otherwise indicated. The accounting policies applied, except as described in Note 2, are consistent with those outlined in Saskferco Products Inc.'s ("Saskferco" or "the company") annual financial statements for the year ended May 31, 2004. These financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the financial position and results of operations for the respective periods. These financial statements do not include all disclosures required in the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the company's May 31, 2004 annual financial statements. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the fiscal year.
 
Since a determination of many assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses is dependent on future events, the preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions, which have been made using careful judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates. In the opinion of management, these financial statements have been properly prepared within the framework of the company's significant accounting policies.
 
2. EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS
 
The company has made contributions of $178 (2003$182) to a defined contribution employee future benefit plan. These contributions are expensed as incurred. The company's best estimate of total contributions expected to be paid during the fiscal year is $600.
 
3. ACCOUNTING CHANGES
 
Effective June 1, 2004, the company prospectively adopted new accounting requirements of the CICA Handbook Section 1100 "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles". This section establishes standards for financial reporting in accordance with Canadian GAAP and provides guidance on sources to consult when selecting accounting policies and determining appropriate disclosures when a matter is not dealt with explicitly in the primary sources of Canadian GAAP. There was no material impact on the accounting policies of the company resulting from the adoption of this standard.
 
On June 1, 2004, the company adopted the provisions of CICA Accounting Guideline No. 13 ("AcG-13"). AcG-13 provides guidance on the identification, designation, documentation and effectiveness of hedging relationships for the purpose of applying hedge accounting, and on the discontinuance of hedge accounting. The company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. The company also formally assesses, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. There is no material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows from the adoption of this standard.
Hedging Relationships
 
On June 1, 2004, the company adopted the provisions of CICA Handbook Section 3110 "Asset Retirement Obligations", which establishes standards for the recognition, measurement and disclosure
 
 
 
of asset retirement obligations and the related asset retirement costs. Section 3110 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset, and the liability is accreted at the end of each period through charges to operating expenses. There is no material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows from the adoption of this standard.
 
In June 2003, the CICA issued Accounting Guideline No. 15 ("AcG-15"). AcG-15 is harmonized with U.S. GAAP and provides guidance for applying the principles in CICA Handbook Section 1590 "Subsidiaries" to those entities defined as Variable Interest Entities ("VIE's"). AcG-15 defines VIE's and provides guidance on when VIE's should be consolidated, and is effective for all annual and interim periods beginning on or after November 1, 2004. The adoption of this standard will have no impact on the company.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
In June and July 2004, the CICA approved re-exposure drafts of proposed CICA Handbook Section 3855 "Financial InstrumentsRecognition and Measurement", and Section 3865 "Hedges". The CICA has confirmed that mandatory implementation of standards developed from the re-exposure drafts will be for interim and annual financial statements relating to years commencing on or after October 1, 2006. The CICA has also approved, subject to written ballot, a proposed new Section 1530 "Comprehensive Income". Companies will not be permitted to apply Section 1530 until Sections 3855 and 3865 are finalized. The re-exposure drafts are intended to increase harmonization with U.S. GAAP.
 
4. INVENTORIES
 
 
5. SHARE CAPITAL
 
On August 5, 2004, the company paid dividends of $36,667 to its Class A and Class B shareholders.
 
6. SUBORDINATED NOTES
 
Effective May 28, 2004, the company agreed to authorize up to $55,556 Class A Subordinated Notes and up to $54,444 Class B Subordinated notes, due June 1, 2014.
 
All Subordinated Notes (the "Notes") are subordinate and junior in right of payment to the secured debt described in Note 6. Cash distribution of interest and principal is governed by a project agreement amongst the shareholders, and as such, holders of the Notes will receive no interest or principal payment or distribution unless secured debt obligations have first been paid in full. Under the
 
 
 
Subordinated Notes, any unpaid interest otherwise due is annually convertible to principal. In addition, Saskferco may, at its option, elect to prepay principal at any time without penalty. The company may request the Noteholders to subordinate their claims to certain counterparties with respect to long-term commodity purchase arrangements or swaps.
 
Interest on the Notes is payable at a rate of CDOR plus 2%. CDOR Rate is defined as the annual average rates for Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances with a term of 90 days per Reuters "Canadian Interbank Bid BA Rates".
 
In accordance with the terms of a Note Purchase Agreement, two-thirds of the authorized Class A and Class B Subordinated Notes were issued on May 28, 2004, or $37,037 and $36,296 respectively.
 
Effective August 5, 2004, the company issued the remaining $18,519 Class A Subordinated Notes and $18,148 Class B Subordinated Notes.
 
7. RECONCILIATION OF CANADIAN AND UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
 
The company's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP, which, in some significant respects, differs from U.S. GAAP. As required by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the effects of these principal differences on the company's financial statements are quantified and described where indicated by reference below:
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
 
Three months ended August 31, 2004 and 2003
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
As at August 31
 
 
 
 
 
In fiscal 2004, net revenue or expense derived during the start-up phase of the company's urea ammonium nitrate plant prior to substantial completion and readiness for use was deferred under Canadian GAAP until commercial production levels were met, at which time amortization over the project's estimated useful life began. U.S. GAAP required these costs be expensed as incurred. The net revenue deferred under Canadian GAAP and recognized as incurred under U.S. GAAP for the year ended May 31, 2004 was $447 (2003$nil). For Canadian GAAP purposes, this net revenue is being amortized into income over the estimated 25 year UAN plant life. This amortization is removed from income for U.S. GAAP purposes, which reduces the accumulated net pre-operating expenditures over the amortization term.
 
 
Under Canadian GAAP, the company's derivative instruments that have not yet been settled are not recognized in the financial statements, and gains or losses arising from settled gas hedging transactions are deferred as a component of inventory until the product containing the hedged item is sold. At that time, both the natural gas purchase cost and the related hedging deferral are recorded as cost of goods sold. Additionally, as discussed in (c) below, gains or losses arising from settled foreign currency hedging transactions are recorded in sales, given the relationship between these gains or losses, the U.S. dollar revenue stream and the related long-term medium term note debt.
 
For U.S. GAAP purposes in the year ended May 31, 2002, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS 133, and the corresponding amendments under SFAS 138 and SFAS 149, which requires that derivative instruments, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, be recorded at fair value in the Balance Sheet. The accounting treatment of gains or losses resulting from fluctuations in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship. Any portion of the change in fair value of a derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting, and any ineffectiveness in a qualifying hedging relationship, is recognized in income immediately. Unrealized gains or losses relating to derivatives that are hedging items are deferred in other comprehensive income and recognized in the same period as the corresponding hedged items.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
As at and for the three-month period ended August 31, 2004, the company has opted to use hedge accounting under SFAS 133. For the comparative three-month period ended August 31, 2003, the company opted not to use hedge accounting.
 
Under U.S. GAAP, the fair values of the company's swap and option derivative instruments outstanding as at August 31, 2004 are unrealized liabilities of $3,578 (2003$3,162 liabilities). At the current period end, given the company has opted to use hedge accounting under SFAS 133, an offsetting $3,578 has been recorded in other comprehensive income at its net of tax amount of $2,405. The short-term nature of the company's hedging relationships at August 31, 2004 will result in reclassification into earnings of losses reported in accumulated comprehensive income within the next six months. At August 31, 2003, because hedge accounting was not applied, the offsetting $3,162 has been recognized as other (income) expense. For amounts realized in the
 
 
 
period, the U.S. GAAP statement of operations for the three-month period ended August 31, 2004 included realized losses of $1,162 in cost of goods sold. On the U.S. GAAP statement of operations for the three-month period ended August 31, 2003, realized losses of $340 have been reclassified from cost of goods sold to other (income) expense.
 
 
The repayment of the U.S. dollar long-term medium term note debt is being made from U.S. dollar revenue streams generated from fertilizer sales, which, for Canadian GAAP purposes, provides an effective hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Under this treatment, the annual principal repayment is recorded at the historical exchange rate of $1.1539, and any exchange losses arising from annually settling this hedging transaction is recorded against related sales.
 
U.S. GAAP, as a result of SFAS 133, , restricts the company's ability to use non-derivatives as hedging instruments. This is also consistent with SFAS 52, . As a result, the U.S. dollar sales are recorded at the prevailing exchange rate at the time the transaction occurred, the annual U.S. dollar medium term note principal repayment, as well as the U.S. dollar medium term note balance at period end, are recorded at the current exchange rate with gains and losses flowing through the current period income statement.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Foreign Currency Translation
 
The impact on the outstanding medium term note debt from the movement from the May 31, 2004 exchange rate of $1.3609 to the August 31, 2004 rate of $1.3158 on U.S. GAAP income statement in the current year is a gain of $3,834 (2003$3,137 loss), which has been classified in other income (expense). The U.S. GAAP balance sheet adjustment in the current year to reflect the medium term notes at the current rate rather than the historical rate of $1.1539 would be to increase liabilities and decrease shareholders' equity by $13,757 (2003$25,980).
 
Long-term debt principal repayments under U.S. GAAP, including medium term note and committed instalment loan payments at the current rate of $1.3158, are due as follows:
 
 
 
The income tax adjustment reflects the impact on income taxes of the U.S. GAAP adjustments described above. The company has recorded a valuation allowance of $4,511 (2003$8,524) related to deferred tax assets arising from the cumulative loss on long-term debt, which the company does not expect to realize on. Under U.S. GAAP, future income taxes are referred to as deferred income taxes.
 
 
 
 
In December 2003, the FASB revised Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 "Consolidated Financial Statements". FIN No. 46 defines variable interest entities (VIE's) and provides guidance on when VIE's should be consolidated, and is effective for the company on June 1, 2005. The adoption of this standard will have no impact on the company.
 
In March 2004, FASB ratified consensuses reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") with respect to EITF Issue No. 03-1 "The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments". This was followed on September 30, 2004 by related EITF Issue No. 03-1-1. EITF Issue No. 03-1 addresses recognition, measurement and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairment evaluations for securities within the scope of SFAS 115 "Accounting For Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities", and equity securities that are not subject to the scope of SFAS 115 and are not accounted for under the equity method according to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18 "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock". EITF Issue No. 03-1-1 addresses the effective date of Paragraphs 10 to 20 of EITF Issue No. 03-1, whereby FASB has delayed the previously stated June 15, 2004 effective date for the recognition and measurement guidance related to evaluating whether an impairment is other than temporary. Disclosures for cost method investments are required to be included in annual financial statements prepared for fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004. Additionally, Implementation Guidance issued in proposed FASB Staff Position EITF Issue 03-1-a provides guidance with respect to debt securities that are impaired solely due to interest rates and/or sector spreads and analyzed for other-than-temporary impairment under paragraph 16 of Issue 03-1. The company's practices are substantially consistent with the application guidance of EITF Issue No. 03-1; therefore, adoption will not have a significant impact on its financial statements.
 
On June 23, 2004, FASB issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed statement, "Fair Value Measurements", which would provide guidance for how to measure fair value and would apply broadly to financial and non-financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value under other authoritative accounting pronouncements. The proposed Statement establishes a framework for applying the fair value measurement objective in GAAP, with the objective of increasing consistency, reliability and comparability in financial reporting. FASB will begin redeliberations of this Exposure Draft in November 2004.
 
 
 
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
As at August 31
(Unaudited)
 
 
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) AND ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
Three months ended August 31
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND RETAINED EARNINGS IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
Three months ended August 31
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GAAP
 
Three months ended August 31
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements combine the historical consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses and IMC, giving effect to the Cargill transactions using the purchase method of accounting. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require that one of the companies party to the Cargill transactions be designated as the acquiror for accounting purposes. Cargill has been designated as the acquiror based on the fact that Cargill acquired 66.5% of the Mosaic common stock upon completion of the Cargill transactions.
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of operations assumes the Cargill transactions were effected on June 1, 2003. The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet gives effect to the Cargill transactions as if they had occurred on August 31, 2004. The Cargill Fertilizer Businesses' information for the year ended May 31, 2004 has been derived from the audited financial statements of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses for that year. The Cargill Fertilizer Businesses statement of operations information for the three-month period ended August 31, 2004, and the balance sheet information at August 31, 2004, were derived from the unaudited financial information of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses. IMC's fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 differs from Mosaic's fiscal year end by more than 93 days. The IMC statement of operations information for the twelve-month period ended March 31, 2004, the three-month period ended June 30, 2004, and the balance sheet information at June 30, 2004, was derived from the unaudited financial information of IMC. Mosaic has provided all the information set forth herein regarding the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses and its subsidiaries. IMC has provided all the information set forth herein regarding IMC and its subsidiaries. Neither Mosaic nor IMC assumes any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the information provided by the other party.
 
Please read this information together with the historical financial statements and related notes of the Cargill Fertilizer Businesses and IMC included or incorporated by reference in this prospectus.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements do not reflect the effect of asset dispositions, if any, that may be required by order of regulatory authorities, restructuring charges that will be incurred to fully integrate and operate the combined organization more efficiently, or anticipated synergies resulting from the Cargill transactions. Because the plans for these activities have not yet been finalized, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the cost or impact of such activities. This unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if the businesses had been combined for the periods presented or the results of operations or financial position that Mosaic will experience now that the Cargill transactions have been completed.
 
For purposes of this pro forma analysis, the deemed purchase price for IMC (as described in the notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements) has been allocated based on a preliminary assessment of the fair value of the assets and liabilities of IMC. The pro forma statements of operations adjustments (as described in the notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements) reflect the estimated effects of depreciating and amortizing certain purchase accounting adjusted balances in property, plant and equipment, identifiable intangible assets and long-term debt over their estimated useful lives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance sheet adjustments:
 
 
Statement of operations adjustments:
 
 
 
Balance sheet adjustments:
 
 
Statement of operations adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of changes to equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


