FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20050110172323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 5, 2005, The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") announced that Mosaic Global Holdings Inc. (formerly IMC Global Inc.) ("IMC") and Phosphate Acquisition Partners L.P., the successor to Phosphate Resource Partners Limited Partnership ("PLP"), both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mosaic, had received and accepted the required consents from the holders of all series of their outstanding public debt securities (the "Securities"), totaling approximately $1.8 billion in outstanding principal amount, pursuant to a previously announced solicitation of consents from such holders (the "Consent Solicitation") to certain proposed amendments (the "Amendments") to the terms of the Securities. Upon acceptance by IMC and PLP of such consents, the Amendments to the terms of each series of the Securities became operative and Mosaic and two of its subsidiaries issued certain guarantees (the "Guarantees") to all holders of each series of the Securities.
 
On January 4, 2005, IMC and PLP executed supplemental indentures setting forth the Amendments with respect to each series of the Securities other than IMC's 7.625% Notes due 2005 (the "7.625% Notes") and on January 5, 2005, IMC executed a supplemental indenture setting forth the Amendments with respect to the 7.625% Notes.
 
A copy of the press release, dated January 5, 2005, describing these events is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the completion of the Consent Solicitation and the issuance of the Guarantees, IMC and PLP intend to discontinue filing separate periodic reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in reliance on Rule 12h-5 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINNETONKA, MN, January 5, 2005  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that Mosaic Global Holdings Inc., formerly IMC Global Inc. (IMC), and Phosphate Acquisition Partners L.P., the successor to Phosphate Resource Partners Limited Partnership (PLP), both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mosaic, have received and accepted the required consents from the holders of all series of their outstanding public debt securities (the Securities) pursuant to the previously announced solicitation of consents.
 
IMC and PLP have executed supplemental indentures with respect to each series of the Securities and the proposed amendments to the terms of each series of the Securities have become operative. In addition, Mosaic and two of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees to all holders of each series of the Securities. IMC has also deposited with the Information Agent for the consent solicitation the applicable consent fees relating to consents received from the holders of its 10.875% Senior Notes due 2008, 11.250% Senior Notes due 2011 and 10.875% Senior Notes due 2013.
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as the Solicitation Agent and Bondholder Communications Group acted as the Information Agent for the consent solicitation.
 
About The Mosaic Company
 
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source for phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results, the predictability of fertilizer markets subject to competitive market pressures, changes in foreign currency and exchange rates, international trade risks including, but not limited to, changes in policy by foreign governments. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


