FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20050713172946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Special Transactions Committee and Transactions with Cargill, Incorporated
 
Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill") owns approximately 66.5% of the outstanding Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of The Mosaic Company (the "Company") and all of the Company's outstanding Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement entered into by and between the Company and Cargill on October 22, 2004, commercial or other transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) between Cargill and its subsidiaries (other than the Company and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and the Company and its subsidiaries, on the other hand, except as described below, require the approval of a majority of the former IMC Directors serving on the Company's Board of Directors who are deemed "non-associated directors" (such members being referred to as the "IMC Independent Directors" and comprising the Special Transactions Committee of the Board of Directors or "STC"). The Company's Board of Directors has adopted a charter for the STC which provides that the STC will oversee transactions between the Company and/or its affiliates and Cargill and/or its affiliates with the objective that such transactions be fair and reasonable to the Company, with arm's length terms and conditions. Pursuant to its charter, the STC may delegate all or a portion of its duties in respect of the review and approval of such transactions to a committee of senior management, a subcommittee of the STC or the Chairman of the STC. The STC has approved a policy implemented by the Company known as the "Guidelines for Related Party Transactions with Cargill, Incorporated" (the "Guidelines"), whereby the STC has delegated approval authority for certain transactions with Cargill and/or its affiliates to an internal committee comprised of senior managers of the Company. The internal management committee is required to report its activities to the STC on a periodic basis.
 
Pursuant to the Guidelines, the following transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) with Cargill and/or its affiliates must be approved by the STC:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The review and approval of transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) which do not meet any of the criteria set forth above have been delegated by the STC to the Company's internal management committee.
 
Approval of Certain Related Party Agreements by Special Transactions Committee
 
On July 7, 2005, the STC approved several current or proposed commercial relationships and/or transactions between the Company and Cargill and its affiliates. A general description of the material commercial relationships approved by the STC is set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


