FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20050114091109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
 
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement that its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2004 would be filed late pursuant to Rule 12b-25 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as presented in a press release issued on January 14, 2005.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
MINNETONKA, MN, January 14, 2005  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced that it will file later today a Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission delaying the filing of its Form 10-Q report for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2004. The Company said that it intends to file its Form 10-Q on January 19, 2005 instead of today's due date because additional time was needed to complete a review of a technical tax accounting issue in its Brazilian operations and to finalize additional footnote information relating to debt guarantees recently issued by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
 
Based on the analysis performed to date, the Company believes its review will likely result in a modest increase in the first half net income that the Company announced on January 6, 2005 when it reported preliminary results for its fiscal second quarter.
 
About The Mosaic Company
 
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source for phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at .
www.mosaicco.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the results of the review of the technical tax accounting issue in its Brazilian operations, future financial and operating results, the predictability of fertilizer markets and raw material markets subject to competitive market pressures, changes in foreign currency and exchange rates, international trade risks including, but not limited to, changes in policy by foreign governments and changes in environmental and other governmental regulation. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 


