FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20060214085528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a copy of a presentation entitled "The Mosaic Company  Overview and Outlook" being made by The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") on February 14, 2006 at the Goldman Sachs Tenth Annual Agricultural Forum.
In the presentation, Mosaic updated its outlook for its fiscal year ending May 31, 2006. Mosaic indicated that it continues to expect a strong fourth fiscal quarter, which is seasonally its best quarter, and that it believes that the supply and demand fundamentals over the medium term remain attractive. Based on its current assessment, however, continuing weak sales volumes may result in third fiscal quarter results which are weaker than previously communicated, including the possibility of a modest loss in the quarter. Mosaic continues to carefully monitor and manage its liquidity position. Further information regarding the updated outlook is included in Exhibit 99.1, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 



