FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20060502130254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On May 1, 2006, the Board of Directors of The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") approved plans to close indefinitely the South Pierce and Green Bay phosphate fertilizer production plants and Fort Green phosphate rock mine of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC ("Mosaic Fertilizer"), in central Florida. The three facilities affected by Mosaic's restructuring actions, which rank as Mosaic's highest cost Florida operations, will cease production at the end of May 2006.
The restructuring of Mosaic's phosphate business is expected to generate cost reduction benefits by allowing it to maximize production at its most efficient phosphate operations. Mosaic anticipates that the restructuring actions will result in lower raw material and operating costs, reduced capital expenditures and improved cash flow beginning in fiscal 2007. Mosaic estimates that the closure of the facilities on an indefinite basis will result in an after-tax earnings charge in the range of $300 to $400 million during its fiscal 2006 fourth quarter, the majority of which will be a non-cash asset-related charge. Total cash expenditures related to the phosphate restructuring activities are estimated to range between $55 and $65 million in fiscal 2007, which is an amount approximately equivalent to the capital expenditures that will become unnecessary as a result of the restructuring.
This strategic decision is intended to dramatically strengthen the operating effectiveness of Mosaic's ongoing phosphates business, which will include nine facilities in Florida and Louisiana, and immediately enhance Mosaic's cost competitiveness. Mosaic expects the result to be a more stable, lower-cost phosphates business that Mosaic expects will provide customers with a predictable supply of consistently high-quality products, and generate greater cash flow.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information
All statements, other than statements of historical fact, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, forward-looking statements may include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "potential," "predict," "project" or "should." These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of the date of this filing.
Factors that could cause reported results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: our ability to successfully integrate the former operations of IMC Global Inc. ("IMC") and the Cargill Crop Nutrition ("CCN") businesses; our ability to fully realize the expected costs savings from the October 22, 2004 business combination (the "Combination") between IMC and CCN within the expected time frames; the ability to develop and execute comprehensive plans for asset optimization and/or rationalization; the financial resources of, and products available to, our competitors; the retention of existing, and continued attraction of additional, customers and key employees; the effect of any conditions or restrictions imposed on or proposed with respect to Mosaic by regulators following the Combination; general business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry in localities where we or our customers operate; adverse weather conditions affecting operations, including the impact of potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; changes in the nitrogen, phosphate or potash markets; the impact of competitive products, including the introduction of new competitive products and the expansion or contraction of production capacity or selling efforts by competitors; pressure on prices realized by us for our products; changes in the costs, or constraints on supplies, of raw materials or energy used in manufacturing certain of our products; capacity constraints limiting the production of certain products; difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of obtaining or satisfying conditions of, required governmental and
regulatory approvals; market acceptance issues, including the failure of products to generate anticipated sales levels; the effects of and change in trade, monetary, environmental and fiscal policies, laws and regulations; foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; the costs and effects of legal proceedings and regulatory matters affecting us, including environmental and administrative proceedings involving us; success in implementing our various initiatives; the rating of our securities and changes that may occur in the U.S. financial markets; any errors due to the material weakness we have identified in our internal controls discussed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended February 28, 2006; actual costs of closure of the South Pierce, Green Bay and Fort Green facilities differing from management's current estimates; realization of management's expectations regarding reduced raw material or operating costs, reduced capital expenditures, improved cash flow and anticipated timeframes for such closures; the ability to obtain any requisite waivers or amendments from lenders or regulatory agencies with oversight of Mosaic or its phosphate business; and other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission reports. In addition, we have consummated the Combination and our Board of Directors and management are not identical to the Board of Directors or management of either CCN or IMC prior to the Combination. Our Board and management may operate the combined businesses of Mosaic in a manner that differs from the manner in which the historical operations of either CCN or IMC were operated on a standalone basis.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Mosaic's announcement regarding its plans to close indefinitely the South Pierce and Green Bay phosphate fertilizer production plants and Fort Green phosphate rock mine of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Mosaic Fertilizer, as presented in a press release issued on May 2, 2006. Additional information regarding such plans is set forth in the script for a conference call to be held by Mosaic on May 2, 2006 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibits furnished herewith. The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index hereto are being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall they be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, May 2, 2006  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today plans to close indefinitely its South Pierce and Green Bay phosphate fertilizer production plants and Fort Green phosphate mine in central Florida. The three facilities affected by Mosaic's restructuring actions, which rank as Mosaic's highest cost Florida operations, will cease production at the end of May 2006.
The restructuring of Mosaic's phosphate business is expected to generate cost reduction benefits by allowing it to maximize production at its most efficient phosphate operations. Mosaic anticipates that the restructuring actions will result in lower raw material and operating costs, reduced capital expenditures and improved cash flow beginning in fiscal 2007. Mosaic estimates that the closure of the facilities on an indefinite basis will result in an after-tax earnings charge in the range of $300 to $400 million during its fiscal 2006 fourth quarter, the majority of which will be a non-cash asset-related charge. Total cash expenditures related to the phosphate restructuring activities are estimated to range between $55 and $65 million in fiscal 2007, which is approximately equivalent to the capital expenditures that will become unnecessary as a result of the restructuring.
"This strategic decision will dramatically strengthen the operating effectiveness of our ongoing phosphates business, which will include nine facilities in Florida and Louisiana, and immediately enhance Mosaic's cost competitiveness," said Fritz Corrigan, President and Chief Executive Officer. "While the upfront earnings charge is significant, much of it is non-cash. The result will be a more stable, lower-cost phosphates business that we expect will provide our customers with a predictable supply of consistently high-quality products, and generate greater cash flow. This decision will allow us to more effectively execute our business plan in an evolving and dynamic global phosphate market."
Mosaic's Fort Green mine, with an annual capacity of 4.9 million metric tonnes, has had particularly high cash costs, largely because of the distance between its mining operations and phosphate rock processing and shipping facilities. Following Fort Green's closure, Mosaic's annual phosphate rock capacity is estimated to range between 14.6 and 15.1 million tonnes through its South Fort Meade, Four Corners, Hookers Prairie and Hopewell mines in central Florida. Mosaic anticipates that Fort Green's phosphate reserves will be mined through one or more of Mosaic's current or future mines, and that its reduced overall annual mining operations will extend Mosaic's reserve life in central Florida by approximately 10 years.
Mosaic's Green Bay phosphate fertilizer production plant has the capacity to produce 1.3 million tonnes of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and mono-ammonium phosphate (MAP) annually, which are the two most widely used phosphate fertilizer products in the world. The South Pierce fertilizer plant has the annual capacity to produce 730,000 tonnes of triple superphosphate (TSP), which is a more limited-use product than either DAP or MAP. Following the indefinite closure of the South Pierce and Green Bay facilities, Mosaic's total annual phosphate fertilizer production is expected to be approximately 8.5 million tonnes in fiscal 2007, in addition to approximately 1.0 million tonnes of animal feed phosphate products. Mosaic will remain the world's largest phosphate supplier, and will focus on producing phosphate-based fertilizer and feed products at its larger, more efficient operations in Bartow, New Wales and Riverview, Florida, as well as its two phosphate facilities in Louisiana.
Mosaic expects the indefinite closures will result in the elimination of over 700 jobs. "These decisions were not easy because they impact many of our colleagues who have put forward their best effort, and whose skills will undoubtedly continue to benefit employers and communities in central Florida. We are very grateful for the contributions each has made to our phosphate organization," Corrigan said. "At the same time, however, we are establishing a stronger foundation for Mosaic's future and improved long-term opportunities for the approximately 3,000 remaining Florida employees who will be working to see Mosaic realize its full potential in the years ahead."
Mosaic will continue to own the affected facilities and will work with appropriate regulatory agencies to comply with the requirements of any applicable laws and regulations which relate to its phosphate restructuring activities. Employees affected by Mosaic's restructuring will be eligible for benefits under applicable Mosaic policies, contractual commitments and federal law.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source of phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on May 2, 2006, to discuss the restructuring of its phosphates business. The call will begin at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (12:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time) and will last no longer than 30 minutes.
 
Additionally, a Webcast of the conference call, both live and as a replay, can be accessed by visiting Mosaic's web site at http://www.mosaicco.com/investors. This Webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the conference call.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability of fertilizer, raw material and energy markets subject to competitive market pressures; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks including, but not limited to, changes in policy by foreign governments; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation; the ability to successfully integrate the former operations of Cargill Crop Nutrition and IMC Global Inc. and the ability to fully realize the expected cost savings from their business combination within expected time frames; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of closure of the South Pierce, Green Bay and Fort Green facilities differing from management's current estimates; realization of management's expectations regarding reduced raw material or operating costs, reduced capital expenditures and improved cash flow and anticipated time frames for the closures; and the ability to obtain any requisite waivers or amendments from lenders or regulatory agencies with oversight of The Mosaic Company or its phosphate business, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Phosphate Restructuring Announcement
Conference Call Script
12:00 noon CDT/1:00 p.m. EDT
May 2, 2006
CONFERENCE CALL SCRIPT
Operator Script:
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Mosaic Company's conference call regarding Mosaic's announcement relating to the restructuring of its Florida-based phosphate mining and manufacturing operations. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for questions following a brief presentation. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Doug Hoadley.
Sir, you may begin.
Doug Hoadley:
Thank you. My name is Doug Hoadley and I am Vice President of Investor Relations for The Mosaic Company. Also representing the Mosaic today are Fritz Corrigan, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Larry Stranghoener, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Fritz for his remarks, I want to inform participants on this call of our Safe Harbor Statement. Statements made during this conference call contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability of fertilizer, raw material and energy markets subject to competitive market pressures; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks including, but not limited to, changes in policy by foreign governments; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation; the ability to successfully integrate the former operations of Cargill Crop Nutrition and IMC Global Inc.
and the ability to fully realize the expected cost savings from their business combination within expected time frames; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of closure of the South Pierce, Green Bay and Fort Green facilities differing from management's current estimates; realization of management's expectations regarding reduced raw material or operating costs, reduced capital expenditures, improved cash flow and anticipated time frames for the closures; and the ability to obtain any requisite waivers or amendments from lenders or regulatory agencies with oversight of The Mosaic Company or its phosphate business, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Because of the time sensitive nature of this information, it is Mosaic's policy to limit the archive replay of the conference call for a period of seven days. This call is the property of Mosaic. Any distribution, transmission, broadcast or rebroadcast in any form without the express written consent of Mosaic is prohibited.
With that as important background, I'll turn it over to Fritz Corrigan.
Fritz Corrigan:
Thank you, Doug and good afternoon to everyone.
We are holding this call to update you on our announcement this morning about a significant restructuring of our Florida phosphate mining and manufacturing operations. As we announced, we have initiated actions to close indefinitely our South Pierce and Green Bay phosphate fertilizer operations and our Fort Green phosphate rock mine. These facilities will cease production at the end of May 2006.
This decision, which is part of our strategic plan to operate a low-cost and globally competitive phosphates business, will significantly reduce our cost structure by operating our remaining large scale mines and plants  which total nine in Florida and Louisiana - at capacity. We are consolidating our operations into a structure that should allow us to thrive for the long term and maximize production at our most efficient phosphate operations.
 
We have made this decision because our Phosphates business unit is producing unacceptable financial returns and cash flow during a period of strong overall market conditions. The inadequate performance of Phosphates is primarily due to our high cost structure, coupled with rolling production shutdowns in response to industry seasonality and changing global market conditions. In addition, we are hampered by the long distance between our mining operations and phosphate rock processing and shipping facilities at Fort Green.
The Fort Green mine has an annual rock capacity of 4.9 million metric tonnes. The Green Bay phosphate fertilizer production plant has an annual capacity of 1.3 million metric tonnes of di-ammonium phosphate and mono-ammonium phosphate, or DAP and MAP. Our South Pierce phosphate fertilizer production plant has an annual capacity of 730,000 metric tonnes of triple superphosphate (TSP). Following the closure of these facilities, Mosaic's annual phosphate rock capacity is estimated to range between 14.6 and 15.1 million metric tonnes. Despite the Fort Green closure, we will maintain access to that mine's phosphate rock reserves which we will plan to process through our current or future mines in Florida. We estimate that closure of Fort Green mine will extend our reserve life in Florida by 10 years. Phosphate fertilizer production, on the other hand, is estimated to be approximately 8.5 million metric tonnes in fiscal 2007, which is in addition to 1.0 million metric tonnes of feed phosphate products.
We believe that our streamlined phosphate operations will meet our customers' needs. We expect to run our remaining mines and phosphate production plants at capacity year-round  leading to significantly improved plant economics. And, if necessary, to meet any additional market demand requirements, we are able to undertake de-bottleknecking and optimization initiatives to increase capacity at these facilities. In addition, by reducing our production footprint we will be able to direct our capital expenditures to support our most efficient operations and growth opportunities, instead of maintaining these much less productive facilities.
Unfortunately, difficult decisions like those announced today come with high people costs. With the closure of the three facilities, we anticipate today that over 700 positions will be eliminated, and we will be saying good-bye and thank you to many colleagues who have served this company well and loyally for many years. Clearly, we would not
 
move ahead if we were not convinced that our plan is the best way for Mosaic to succeed for many years to come. We will treat our departing employees with care and respect they deserve, and we sincerely thank them for their many contributions.
I also would like to emphasize that we are coordinating with the appropriate Florida agencies to comply with applicable regulatory requirements relating to the closures. Though we are closing these facilities, and expect them to remain closed, we are not walking away from any closure obligations and intend to fulfill them in a responsible manner, consistent with Mosaic's commitments to the communities in which we operate.
Turning to the financial details, this important decision should significantly strengthen the operating effectiveness of our ongoing phosphate business by lowering operating and raw material costs, reducing capital expenditures and working capital requirements, and improving cash flow beginning in fiscal 2007.
We expect the closure of these operations will result in an after-tax earnings charge in the range of $300 to $400 million during our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter. Most of this charge will be non-cash and relates to the acceleration of depreciation on the remaining useful lives of the facilities to record them at zero value as of May 31, 2006. We estimate that total cash expenditures related to the phosphate restructuring activities will range between $55 and $65 million in fiscal 2007. These expenditures will be approximately offset by a corresponding reduction in capital expenditures as a result of the restructuring - largely due to the elimination of capital requirements for the Fort Green mine. Beyond our fiscal 2007, for the next several years we expect ongoing cash closure costs sooner than we would have otherwise expected absent the closures, largely related to ongoing gypstack maintenance and water management requirements, as would be typical when closing these types of facilities. We anticipate that these cash costs will be offset by lower capital expenditures that otherwise would be required during the same time frame at these facilities.
We anticipate several benefits resulting from the closures. In fiscal 2007, we estimate our actions will reduce our pre-tax operating costs by approximately $130 to $150 million and lower our capital expenditures by $55 to $65 million. Additionally, by
 
operating only our core facilities we look to reduce working capital by $20 to $30 million. We also believe that by materially reducing our appetite for critical raw materials such as ammonia and sulfur, which have significantly impacted the cost performance of our phosphate operations, we will see a favorable impact on prices for these inputs, though our cost/benefit analysis does not depend upon that outcome. Summing it all up, the cash payback on this decision is highly positive and will provide ongoing benefits to Mosaic for the years to come.
Please note that the magnitude of the fourth quarter earnings charge put us in noncompliance with our consent agreement with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and with our bank credit agreement. We have already been in discussions with the FDEP and have committed to work closely with them to address financial responsibility requirements. Likewise, we have also initiated discussions with our banking group about amending our credit agreement as may be required, and are confident of a successful outcome. It's important to note that we may not fully know the status of our compliance under these agreements until our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter has been completed.
may
To wrap it up, today's announcement is about our future. Though we do not take lightly the fact that over 700 jobs will be eliminated or that we will incur a large accounting charge to our earnings, our actions demonstrate Mosaic's long-term commitment to our customers and to the successful operation of our phosphates business in Florida, including approximately 3,000 employees who will help execute our business plan at our remaining facilities. By closing our highest cost operations and operating our largest facilities at capacity, we expect to generate more cash, more quickly pay down our debt and build a strong foundation for future growth.
Doug, I'll now turn the call back to you.
Doug:
Thank you Fritz. Now the operator can please open up the phone for questions.
 


