FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20071220104948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 14, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") appointed James L. Popowich to serve as a director of Mosaic for a term expiring at the annual meeting of directors in 2008 or until his successor is elected and qualified. Mr. Popowich was also appointed to the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee and the Special Transactions Committee of the Board.
Mr. Popowich was appointed as an "IMC Director" pursuant to the terms of an Investor Rights Agreement between Cargill, Incorporated, Cargill Fertilizer, Inc. and GNS I (U.S.) Corp. (collectively, "Cargill") and Mosaic, as amended and restated as of August 1, 2006 (the "Investor Rights Agreement"). Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, among other things, through October 22, 2008 Cargill has agreed to take (including causing its representatives or designees on Mosaic's Board to take) commercially reasonable actions to cause any slate of nominees recommended by the Board to Mosaic's stockholders to include appropriate individuals to ensure that the resulting Board will consist of:
 
 
 
 
In addition, pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement:
 
 
 
"Nonassociated director," as used in the Investor Rights Agreement, means a member of our Board who would be considered an independent director of Mosaic under the rules and regulations of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
Mr. Popowich was selected in accordance with the provisions summarized above as a replacement director to fill the vacancy arising from the resignation from the Board effective August 14, 2007 of Bernard M. Michel, who was formerly an IMC Director.
Mr. Popowich is entitled to compensation for his service as a director of Mosaic pursuant to the policy adopted by the Board for all non-employee directors, including but not limited to a prorated portion, valued at $32,500, of the 2007 annual grant of restricted stock units providing a grant of Mosaic common stock on the third trading day following our release of quarterly earnings for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


