FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20070111114325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement that it had notified the Securities and Exchange Commission of a late filing of its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2006 due to implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system, as presented in a press release issued on January 10, 2007.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, January 10, 2007  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it has notified the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that it was not able to file its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2006 (the "10-Q Report") on a timely basis. The 10-Q Report was due on January 9, 2007. The delay in filing the 10-Q Report is because of the implementation of its new enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system in October 2006, which has necessitated additional time to accurately complete its quarterly financial consolidation process and to prepare the related information to be included in the 10-Q Report.
In its notice to the SEC, Mosaic stated that, based on currently available information, it believes that:
 
 
 
 
"We are working through start-up issues with a very complex, tightly integrated commercial and financial system and our focus is on accuracy," stated Larry Stranghoener, Mosaic's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "Current business conditions are good, with solid demand and improved pricing for all three major nutrients, especially in North America. We look forward to a strong second half performance," Stranghoener added.
Mosaic also noted that its earnings release to report interim financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2006 has also been delayed. Mosaic stated that it is working to complete the 10-Q Report as expeditiously as possible, and anticipates that it will be filed by the end of January 2007. For more information, see Mosaic's Form 12b-25 filed with the SEC.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source of phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at
www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to, the predictability of fertilizer, raw material and energy markets subject to competitive market pressures; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks including, but not limited to, changes in policy by foreign governments; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation; the ability to successfully integrate the former operations of Cargill Crop Nutrition and IMC Global Inc. and the ability to fully realize the expected cost savings from their business combination within expected time frames; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of closure of the South Pierce, Green Bay and Fort Green facilities differing from management's current estimates; realization of management's expectations regarding reduced raw material or operating costs, reduced capital expenditures and improved cash flow and anticipated time frames for the closures and the ability to obtain any requisite waivers or amendments from regulatory agencies with oversight of The Mosaic Company or its phosphate business; accidents involving our operations, including mine fires, floods and potential explosions or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals; our successful completion of analyses and other procedures, in addition to those currently available through our new ERP system, to assure that our interim financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and the rules of the SEC applicable to our interim financial statements, our expectations about the time necessary for our auditors to complete their review of our interim financial information and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


