FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20071221120805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's press release announcing its election to prepay $150 million of term loans.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Press Release
 
Plymouth, MN, December 21, 2007  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it is notifying the lenders under its senior secured bank credit facility (the "Facility") of its election to prepay $150 million principal amount of term loans under the Facility on December 31, 2007.
"This prepayment reflects a very important milestone for Mosaic," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We have successfully prepaid $1 billion of long-term debt in the past eight months, and we've also established a strong financial base from which to grow."
The prepayments will consist of $56.4 million principal amount of Term Loan A-1 borrowings and $87.1 million principal amount of Term Loan B borrowings by Mosaic and $6.5 million principal amount of Term Loan A borrowings by its subsidiary, Mosaic Potash Colonsay ULC. After the prepayments, outstanding term loans under the Facility will be reduced to $2.2 million principal amount of Term Loan A borrowings, $19.2 million principal amount of Term Loan A-1 borrowings, and $29.6 million principal amount of Term Loan B borrowings.
With the prepayment on December 31, 2007, during the last eight months Mosaic will have used cash generated by its ongoing business operations to prepay $1 billion of long-term debt. Mosaic considers the prepayments to be a significant step in its plan to reduce outstanding borrowings, strengthen its balance sheet, and achieve investment grade credit ratings.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source of phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.


