FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20070124090918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement that it had identified a new brine inflow at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, mines.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, January 24, 2007  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it recently identified a new saturated brine inflow located approximately 7,500 feet from its existing brine inflow management area in a mined out area at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mines.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the new inflow but does not currently expect any impact on fiscal 2007 production from Esterhazy's K1 and K2 mines. The Company estimates that the mitigation efforts to address the brine inflow will cost in the range of $20 to $40 million in its fiscal year ending May 31, 2007, a portion of which is expected to be capitalized, which is in addition to the expenditures that had already been budgeted for managing Esterhazy's existing brine inflow area.
"We have been successfully managing brine inflow issues at our Esterhazy mines for over two decades," said James T. Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The recent data collected suggests that the new inflow could be at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which is significantly greater than inflows we've previously experienced at Esterhazy and warrants aggressive mitigation efforts. Our mitigation teams have been deployed and, based on prior success in treating other inflows, we are optimistic that the new inflow can be mitigated successfully through pumping, grouting and other measures," Prokopanko added.
The Company began to have saturated brine inflows at Esterhazy in 1985. Since that time the Company has been managing brine inflow areas as part of its ongoing operations. Without abatement, and assuming current estimates to be accurate, the
Company has storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months without adversely affecting production at Esterhazy.
The Esterhazy mines, which recently completed a 400,000 metric tonne expansion, have an annual production capacity of approximately 4.3 million metric tonnes.
The Company is posting on its website additional detail relating to the new brine inflow, and further expects to provide an update on the status of the inflow, its remediation efforts and future production matters when more information is available.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. For the global agriculture industry, Mosaic is a single source of phosphates, potash, nitrogen fertilizers and feed ingredients. More information on the company is available at
www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to its estimates of the current volumes of brine inflows at its Esterhazy mines, the available capacity of brine storage reservoirs at the Esterhazy mines, the possibility that the rate of the brine inflows could materially increase, its expectations regarding the potential efficacy of remedial measures to control the brine inflows, the level of capital and operating expenditures necessary to control the inflows, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at the Esterhazy mines may increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflow, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mines. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


