FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20081014140238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Director's Offer of Resignation
On October 8, 2008, Raymond F. Bentele, a director elected to serve until the annual meeting of stockholders of The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic" or the "Company") in 2010 or until his successor is elected and has qualified, submitted his resignation as a director of Mosaic in accordance with the retirement policy adopted by Mosaic's Board of Directors (the "Board"). The retirement policy provides that a nonemployee director will voluntarily retire from the Board by submitting a letter of resignation to the Chairman of the Board to be effective not later than the date on which Mosaic's annual meeting of stockholders is to be held during the calendar year in which the nonemployee director has attained or will attain age 72. On October 9, 2008, the Board, upon the recommendation of its Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, rejected the resignation and Mr. Bentele accepted the Board's request to continue to serve as a director until the annual meeting of stockholders in 2009 or such other time prior to expiration of his term of office as mutually agreed by Mr. Bentele and the Board.
(e) Director and Executive Officer Indemnification Agreements
On October 9, 2008, the Board, upon the recommendation of its Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, authorized Mosaic to enter into indemnification agreements with each of its directors and executive officers (the "Indemnitees"). A copy of the form of indemnification agreement (the "Agreement") is attached as Exhibit 10.iii. hereto. The following description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement.
The Agreement provides, among other things, that, subject to the limitations of the Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, the Company shall indemnify an Indemnitee who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or while serving as a director or officer of the Company, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity. The indemnification shall cover expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding ("Losses") if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful. In the case of actions brought by or in the right of the Company, no indemnification shall be made without judicial approval if the Indemnitee is adjudged to be liable to the Company. Where indemnification in accordance with the Agreement is unavailable to an Indemnitee, the Agreement also provides for the Company to contribute to the payment of the Indemnitee's Losses to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Agreement also provides for, among other things, advancement of expenses and independent or disinterested determinations as to whether the standard for indemnification under the Agreement has been met, and governs other procedural matters related to indemnification and insurance claims.
The Company's obligations under the Agreement continue as long as an Indemnitee serves as a director or officer of the Company or, at the request of the Company, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, and as long as the Indemnitee may be subject to any possible action, suit or proceeding by reason of such service.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.iii
This Indemnification Agreement, dated as of , 20, is made by and between The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and (the "").
                    
    
Company
                                        
Indemnitee
A. The Company recognizes that competent and experienced persons are increasingly reluctant to serve or to continue to serve as directors or officers of corporations unless they are protected by comprehensive liability insurance or indemnification, or both, due to increased exposure to litigation costs and risks resulting from their service to such corporations, and due to the fact that the exposure frequently bears no reasonable relationship to the compensation of such directors and officers;
B. The statutes and judicial decisions regarding the duties of directors and officers are often difficult to apply, ambiguous, or conflicting, and therefore fail to provide such directors and officers with adequate, reliable knowledge of legal risks to which they are exposed or information regarding the proper course of action to take;
C. The Company and Indemnitee recognize that plaintiffs often seek damages in such large amounts and the costs of litigation may be so enormous (whether or not the case is meritorious), that the defense and/or settlement of such litigation is often beyond the personal resources of directors and officers;
D. The Company believes that it is unfair for its directors and officers to assume the risk of huge judgments and other expenses which may occur in cases in which the director or officer received no personal profit and in cases where the director or officer was not culpable;
E. The Company, after reasonable investigation, has determined that the liability insurance coverage presently available to the Company may be inadequate in certain circumstances to cover all possible exposure for which Indemnitee should be protected. The Company believes that the interests of the Company and its stockholders would best be served by a combination of such insurance and the indemnification by the Company of the directors and officers of the Company;
F. The Company's Bylaws require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law (the ""). The Bylaws expressly provide that the indemnification provisions set forth therein are not exclusive, and contemplate that contracts may be entered into between the Company and its directors and officers with respect to indemnification;
DGCL
G. Section 145 of the DGCL (""), under which the Company is organized, empowers the Company to indemnify its officers, directors, employees and agents by agreement and to indemnify persons who serve, at the request of the Company, as the directors, officers, employees or agents of other corporations or enterprises, and expressly provides that the indemnification provided by Section 145 is not exclusive;
Section 145
H. Section 102(b)(7) of the DGCL allows a corporation to include in its certificate of incorporation a provision limiting or eliminating the personal liability of a director for monetary damages in respect of claims by shareholders and corporations for breach of certain fiduciary duties, and the Company has so provided in its Certificate of Incorporation that each Director shall be exculpated from such liability to the maximum extent permitted by law;
I. The Board of Directors has determined that contractual indemnification as set forth herein is not only reasonable and prudent but also promotes the best interests of the Company and its stockholders;
J. The Company desires and has requested Indemnitee to serve or continue to serve as a director or officer of the Company free from undue concern for unwarranted claims for damages arising out of or related to such services to the Company; and
K. Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve or to provide additional service for or on behalf of the Company on the condition that he is furnished the indemnity provided for herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. .
Generally
To the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware:
(a) The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee if Indemnitee was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or while serving as a director or officer of the Company, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent (which, for purposes hereof, shall include a trustee, fiduciary, partner or manager or similar capacity) of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing indemnification obligation includes, without limitation, claims for monetary damages against Indemnitee in respect of an alleged breach of fiduciary duties, to the fullest extent permitted under Section 102(b)(7) of the DGCL as in existence on the date hereof.
 
(b) The indemnification provided by this Section 1 shall be from and against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, but shall be provided only if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action, suit or proceeding, Indemnitee had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1, in the case of any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or while serving as a director or officer of the Company, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally judicially determined (, as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have exhausted or lapsed) to be liable to the Company unless, and only to the extent that, the Delaware Court of Chancery or other court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
i.e.
(d) The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
Section 2. . To the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 1 hereof or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred in connection therewith. For purposes of this Agreement and without limiting the foregoing, if any action, suit or proceeding is disposed of, on the merits or otherwise (including a disposition without prejudice), without (i) the disposition being adverse to Indemnitee, (ii) an adjudication that Indemnitee was liable to the Company, (iii) a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by Indemnitee, (iv) an adjudication that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and (v) with respect to any criminal proceeding, an adjudication that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, Indemnitee shall be considered for the purposes hereof to have been wholly successful with respect thereto.
Successful Defense; Partial Indemnification
If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by
 
Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, and any appeal therefrom but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Section 3. .
Determination That Indemnification Is Proper; Selection of Reviewing Party
(a) Any indemnification hereunder shall (unless otherwise ordered by a court) be made by the Company unless a determination is made that indemnification of such person is not proper in the circumstances because he or she has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1(b) hereof. Any such determination shall be made (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to the action, suit or proceeding in question ("disinterested directors"), even if less than a quorum, (ii) by a majority vote of a committee of disinterested directors designated by majority vote of disinterested directors, even if less than a quorum, (iii) by "independent legal counsel", or (iv) by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b) A "Reviewing Party" shall mean the person or body appointed to make the determination described in Section 3(a). If there has been a Change in Control (other than a Change in Control which has been approved by a majority of the Board of Directors who were directors immediately prior to such Change in Control), any Reviewing Party with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnification of expenses under this Agreement or any other agreement or under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws as now or hereafter in effect, or under any other applicable law, if desired by Indemnitee, shall be independent legal counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent Indemnitee would be entitled to be indemnified hereunder under applicable law, and the Company agrees to abide by such opinion. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the independent legal counsel referred to above and to indemnify fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the engagement of such counsel pursuant hereto. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be required to pay expenses of more than one independent legal counsel in connection with all matters concerning a single Indemnitee, and such independent legal counsel shall be the independent legal counsel for any or all other Indemnitees unless (i) the employment of separate counsel by one or more Indemnitees has been previously authorized by the Company in writing, or (ii) an Indemnitee shall have provided to the Company a written statement that such Indemnitee has reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between such Indemnitee and the other Indemnitees with respect to the matters arising under this Agreement.
 
Section 4. .
Advance Payment of Expenses; Notification and Defense of Claim
(a) Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by Indemnitee in defending a threatened or pending civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with an enforcement action pursuant to Section 5(b), shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Company of (i) a statement or statements from Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, and (ii) an undertaking by or on behalf of Indemnitee to repay such amount or amounts, only if, and to the extent that, it shall ultimately be determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized by this Agreement or otherwise. Such undertaking shall be accepted without reference to the financial ability of Indemnitee to make such repayment. Advances shall be unsecured and interest-free.
(b) Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding, Indemnitee shall, if a claim thereof is to be made against the Company hereunder, notify the Company of the commencement thereof. The failure to promptly notify the Company of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding, or Indemnitee's request for indemnification, will not relieve the Company from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee hereunder, except to the extent the Company is prejudiced in its defense of such action, suit or proceeding as a result of such failure.
(c) In the event the Company shall be obligated to pay the expenses of Indemnitee with respect to an action, suit or proceeding, as provided in this Agreement, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such action, suit or proceeding, with counsel reasonably acceptable to Indemnitee, upon the delivery to Indemnitee of written notice of its election to do so. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by Indemnitee with respect to the same action, suit or proceeding, provided that (1) Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitee's own counsel in such action, suit or proceeding at Indemnitee's expense and (2) if (i) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been previously authorized in writing by the Company, (ii) counsel to the Company or Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest or position, or reasonably believes that a conflict is likely to arise, on any significant issue between Indemnitee and any other party represented by the counsel selected by the Company in the conduct of any such defense or (iii) the Company shall not, in fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such action, suit or proceeding, then the fees and expenses of Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Company, except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement. The Company shall not be entitled, without the consent of Indemnitee, to assume the defense of any claim brought by or in the right of the Company or as to which counsel for the Company or Indemnitee shall have reasonably made the conclusion provided for in clause (ii) above.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of Indemnitee's corporate status with respect to the Company or any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
 
enterprise which Indemnitee is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company, a witness or otherwise participates in any action, suit or proceeding at a time when Indemnitee is not a party in the action, suit or proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection therewith.
Section 5. .
Procedure for Indemnification
(a) To obtain indemnification, Indemnitee shall promptly submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification. The Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board of Directors in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
(b) The Company's determination whether to grant Indemnitee's indemnification request shall be made promptly, and in any event within 60 days following receipt of a request for indemnification pursuant to Section 5(a). The right to indemnification as granted by Section 1 of this Agreement shall be enforceable by Indemnitee in any court of competent jurisdiction if the Company denies such request, in whole or in part, or fails to respond within such 60-day period. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 4 hereof where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Company) that Indemnitee has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, but the burden of proving such defense by clear and convincing evidence shall be on the Company. Neither the failure of the Company (including its Board of Directors or one of its committees, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of Indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Company (including its Board of Directors or one of its committees, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct. The Indemnitee's expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with successfully establishing Indemnitee's right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such proceeding or otherwise shall also be indemnified by the Company.
(c) The Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement upon submission of a request for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5, and the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming that presumption in reaching a determination contrary to that presumption. Such presumption shall be used as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the Company overcomes such presumption by clear and convincing evidence.
(d) For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of
 
account of the Company, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the directors or officers of the Company in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Company, its Board of Directors, any committee of the Board of Directors or any director, or on information or records given or reports made to the Company, its Board of Directors, any committee of the Board or any director, by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser, financial advisor or other expert selected by the Company, its Board of Directors, any committee of the Board or any director. The provisions of this Section 5(d) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which Indemnitee may be deemed or found to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
(e) The knowledge and/or actions or failure to act of any other director, officer, agent or employee of the Company shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement.
Section 6. .
Insurance and Subrogation
(a) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of Indemnitee who is or was or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director or officer of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against, and incurred by, Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of Indemnitee's status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify Indemnitee against such liability under the provisions of this Agreement. If the Company has such insurance in effect at the time the Company receives from Indemnitee any notice of the commencement of a proceeding, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the policy. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policy.
(b) In the event of any payment by the Company under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee with respect to any insurance policy, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights in accordance with the terms of such insurance policy. The Company shall pay or reimburse all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such subrogation.
(c) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, and amounts paid in settlement) if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under this Agreement or any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
 
Section 7. . For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:
Certain Definitions
(a) The term "" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including any hearing, inquiry or investigation that Indemnitee believes in good faith might lead to the institution of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
action, suit or proceeding
(b) The term "" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, any actual or alleged act or omission to act.
by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or while serving as a director or officer of the Company, is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise
(c) The term "" shall be broadly and reasonably construed and shall include, without limitation, all direct and indirect costs of any type or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, all attorneys' fees and related disbursements, appeal bonds, other out-of-pocket costs and reasonable compensation for time spent by Indemnitee for which Indemnitee is not otherwise compensated by the Company or any third party, provided that the rate of compensation and estimated time involved is approved by the Board, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee (including as a witness) in connection with any of the investigation, defense or appeal of any action, suit or proceeding or establishing or enforcing a right to indemnification under this Agreement, Section 145 of the DGCL or otherwise, and any federal, state, local or foreign taxes imposed on the Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Agreement.
expenses
(d) The term "" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, all direct and indirect payments of any type or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, all penalties and amounts required to be forfeited or reimbursed to the Company, as well as any penalties or excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan).
judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement
(e) The term "" shall include, without limitation and in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he or she would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
Company
 
(f) The term "" shall include, without limitation, employee benefit plans.
other enterprises
(g) The term "" shall include, without limitation, any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries.
serving at the request of the Company
(h) A person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "" as referred to in this Agreement.
not opposed to the best interests of the Company
(i) The term "" shall mean an attorney or law firm of attorneys who shall not have otherwise performed services for the Company or the Indemnitee within the five years prior to their retention hereunder.
independent legal counsel
(j) The term "" shall mean, and shall be deemed to have occurred if, on or after the date of this Agreement, (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company acting in such capacity or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing more than 50% of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in the general election of directors of the Company, voting together as a single class ("Voting Securities"), (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two thirds (
Change in Control
 2
/
3
) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the Voting Securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
Section 8. . Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to this Agreement:
Limitation on Indemnification
(a) . To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by Indemnitee, except with respect to an action, suit or proceeding brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification (which shall be governed by the provisions of Section 8(b) of this Agreement), unless such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Claims Initiated by Indemnitee
 
(b) . To indemnify Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by Indemnitee with respect to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, unless Indemnitee is successful in establishing Indemnitee's right to indemnification in such action, suit or proceeding, in whole or in part, or unless and to the extent that the court in such action, suit or proceeding shall determine that, despite Indemnitee's failure to establish his or her right to indemnification, Indemnitee is entitled to indemnity for such expenses; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 8(b) is intended to limit the Company's obligation with respect to the advancement of expenses to Indemnitee in connection with any such action, suit or proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, as provided in Section 4 hereof.
Action for Indemnification
(c) . To indemnify Indemnitee on account of any proceeding with respect to which final judgment is rendered against Indemnitee for payment or an accounting of profits arising from the purchase or sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any similar successor statute.
Section 16 Violations
(d) . To indemnify Indemnitee in connection with proceedings or claims involving the enforcement of non-compete and/or non-disclosure agreements or the non-compete and/or non-disclosure provisions of employment, consulting or similar agreements Indemnitee may be a party to with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company or any other applicable foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, if any.
Non-compete and Non-disclosure
(e) . To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to actions, suits or proceedings arising out of acts, omissions or transactions for which Indemnitee is prohibited from receiving indemnification under applicable law.
Indemnification Prohibited by Law
(f) . To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to actions, suits or proceedings arising out of acts, omissions or transactions (i) that a court having jurisdiction in such matter has finally judicially determined (as to which determination all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) constitute fraud or willful misconduct by Indemnitee; (ii) that Indemnitee has admitted in writing or under testimony constitute fraud or willful misconduct by Indemnitee; or (iii) for which Indemnitee has been convicted of a crime related to the action, suit or proceeding.
Fraud, Willful Misconduct or Crime
(g) . In the event Indemnitee is a party to an employment or severance agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated
Termination by Company for Cause
 
entities, to indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to actions, suits or proceedings arising out of acts, omissions or transactions that constitute the basis for termination of Indemnitee's employment for "Cause" (as defined in such employment or severance agreement between the Company and Indemnitee).
(h) . To indemnify or advance expenses if Indemnitee has been otherwise (other than pursuant to this Agreement) indemnified by the Company or other person or entity, or pursuant to any director and officer insurance or other insurance purchased and maintained by the Company or other enterprise, and has received payment in respect of such other indemnification in a timely manner.
Indemnification From Other Sources
Section 9. . The Company shall have no obligation to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement for amounts paid in settlement of any action, suit or proceeding without the Company's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company shall not settle any action, suit or proceeding in any manner that would impose any fine or other obligation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Certain Settlement Provisions
Section 10. .
Contribution
(a) In order to provide for just and equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for herein is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to Indemnitee in whole or in part, it is agreed that, in such event, the Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, contribute to the payment of Indemnitee's costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, in an amount that is just and equitable in the circumstances, taking into account, among other things, contributions by other directors and officers of the Company or others pursuant to indemnification agreements or otherwise; provided, that, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such contribution shall not be required where such holding by the court is due to (i) the failure of Indemnitee to meet the standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 hereof, or (ii) any limitation on indemnification set forth in Section 6(c), 8 or 9 hereof.
(b) The Company shall not enter into any settlement of any action, suit or proceeding in which the Company is jointly and severally liable with Indemnitee (or would be, if joined in such action, suit or proceeding) unless such settlement provides for a full and final release of all claims asserted against Indemnitee.
(c) The Company hereby agrees to fully indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee from any claims for contribution which may be brought by officers, directors or employees of the Company other than Indemnitee who may be jointly liable with Indemnitee.
Section 11. . Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the parties under this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered in person, receipt acknowledged, or sent by facsimile, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid (which notice shall be deemed delivered three business days after mailing), to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notice
If to the Company:
The Mosaic Company
Atria Corporate Center, Suite E490
3033 Campus Drive
Plymouth, Minnesota 55441
Attn: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Facsimile: (763) 577-2990
 
If to Indemnitee:
[]
address and fax number
Section 12. . If the DGCL is amended after adoption of this Agreement to expand further the indemnification permitted to directors or officers, then the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, as so amended.
Subsequent Legislation
Section 13. . The provisions for indemnification and advancement of expenses set forth in this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights which Indemnitee may have under any provision of law, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, in any court in which a proceeding is brought, the vote of the Company's stockholders or disinterested directors, any director and officer insurance or other insurance purchased and maintained by the Company or other enterprise, other agreements or otherwise, and Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall continue after Indemnitee has ceased acting as a director, officer or agent of the Company and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of Indemnitee. However, no amendment or alteration of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or any other agreement shall adversely affect the rights provided to Indemnitee under this Agreement
Nonexclusivity
Section 14. . The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable. The Company agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute a stipulation by which it shall be irrevocably bound in any court of competent jurisdiction in which a proceeding by Indemnitee for enforcement of his rights hereunder shall have been commenced, continued or appealed, that its obligations set forth in this Agreement are unique and special, and that failure of the Company to comply with the provisions of this Agreement will cause irreparable and irremediable injury to Indemnitee, for which a remedy at law will be inadequate. As a result, in addition to any other right or remedy Indemnitee may have at law or in equity with respect to breach of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to injunctive or mandatory relief directing specific performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement.
Enforcement
 
Section 15. . It is understood that the parties hereto intend this Agreement to be interpreted and enforced so as to provide indemnification to Indemnitee to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by law.
Interpretation of Agreement
Section 16. . This Agreement and the documents expressly referred to herein constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby, and any other prior or contemporaneous oral or written understandings or agreements with respect to the matters covered hereby are expressly superseded by this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Section 17. . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver
Section 18. . All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The Company shall require and cause any direct or indirect successor (whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Successor and Assigns
Section 19. . The Company and Indemnitee each hereby irrevocably consent to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware for all purposes in connection with any action or proceeding which arises out of or relates to this Agreement and agree that any action instituted under this Agreement shall be commenced, prosecuted and continued only in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County, which shall be the exclusive and only proper forum for adjudicating such a claim.
Consent to Jurisdiction
Section 20. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. Furthermore, to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation each portion of this Agreement containing any provision held to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, void or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. For the avoidance of doubt, if any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an
Severability
 
action by or in the right of the Company, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Section 21. . This Agreement supersedes any prior indemnification agreement between Indemnitee and the Company or its predecessors.
Supersedes Prior Agreement
Section 22. . All agreements and obligations of the Company contained in this Agreement shall continue during the period Indemnitee serves as a director or officer of the Company or, at the request of the Company, serves as a director, officer, employee or agent (which, for purposes hereof, shall include a trustee, fiduciary, partner or manager or similar capacity) of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, and shall continue thereafter so long as Indemnitee may be subject to any possible action, suit or proceeding (including any rights of appeal thereto and any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 5(b) or Section 14 hereof) by reason of Indemnitee's service described herein, whether or not Indemnitee is acting in any such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification can be provided under this Agreement.
Term
Section 23. . This Agreement shall be governed exclusively by and construed according to the laws of the State of Delaware, as applied to contracts between Delaware residents entered into and to be performed entirely within Delaware. If a court of competent jurisdiction shall make a final determination that the provisions of the law of any state other than Delaware govern indemnification by the Company of its officers and directors, then the indemnification provided under this Agreement shall in all instances be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted under such law, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary.
Governing Law
Section 24. . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to create in Indemnitee any right to continued directorship, employment or continued employment with the Company or any affiliated entity of the Company. In the event Indemnitee is a party to an employment agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities and the terms of this Agreement conflict with the terms of the employment agreement, the employment agreement shall control and this Agreement shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the employment agreement.
Right to Directorship; Employment Rights
Section 25. .Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, following a Change in Control (other than a Change in Control which has been approved by a majority of the Board of Directors who were directors immediately prior to such Change in Control), to the extent requested by the Indemnitee, the Company shall from time to time provide security to Indemnitee for the Company's obligations hereunder through an irrevocable bank line of credit, funded trust or other collateral. Any such security, once provided to Indemnitee, may not be revoked or released without the prior written consent of Indemnitee.
Security
Section 26. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument, notwithstanding that both parties are not signatories to the original or same counterpart.
Counterparts
 
Section 27. . The section and subsection headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered to be effective as of the date first above written.
 
 


