FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20080626101509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special Transactions Committee and Transactions with Cargill, Incorporated
Cargill, Incorporated and its affiliates other than The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") and its subsidiaries (collectively "Cargill") own approximately 64.4 % of the outstanding Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of Mosaic. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of January 26, 2004, as amended and restated on August 17, 2006, by and between Mosaic and Cargill, Incorporated, commercial or other transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) between Cargill, on the one hand, and Mosaic and its subsidiaries (collectively the "Company"), on the other hand, except as provided below, require the approval of a majority of the former IMC Directors (as defined in the Investor Rights Agreement) serving on Mosaic's Board of Directors who are deemed "non-associated directors" (such members comprising the Special Transactions Committee of the Board of Directors). Mosaic's Board of Directors has adopted a charter for the Special Transactions Committee which provides that the Special Transactions Committee will oversee transactions between Mosaic and Cargill with the objective that such transactions be fair and reasonable to Mosaic, with arm's length terms and conditions. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement and the Special Transactions Committee's charter, the Special Transactions Committee may delegate all or a portion of its duties in respect of the review and approval of such transactions to a committee of senior management, a subcommittee of the Special Transactions Committee, or the Chairman of the Special Transactions Committee. The Special Transactions Committee has approved a policy implemented by Mosaic known as "Guidelines for Related Party Transactions with Cargill, Incorporated" (the "Guidelines"), whereby the Special Transactions Committee has delegated approval authority for certain transactions with Cargill to an internal committee comprised of senior managers of Mosaic. The internal management committee is required to report its activities to the Special Transactions Committee on a periodic basis.
Pursuant to the Guidelines, the following transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) with Cargill must be approved by the Special Transactions Committee:
 
 
 
 
 
The review and approval of transactions, arrangements or agreements (or series of related transactions) which do not meet any of the criteria set forth above have been delegated by the Special Transactions Committee to Mosaic's internal management committee.
Pursuant to approval of the Special Transactions Committee, Mosaic Canada Crop Nutrition, L.P. and Cargill Limited entered into a supply agreement dated June 20, 2008 for the supply of industrial fine grade potassium chloride treated with triple superphosphate. Cargill Limited will purchase up to 5,000 metric tonnes of potassium chloride treated with triple superphosphate per year for the first two years of the agreement. Thereafter, the maximum annual volume will increase to 15,000 tons per year. Prices will be negotiated semi-annually. This agreement is in effect for five years and expires on June 30, 2013.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


