FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20081002081540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2008 as presented in a press release issued on October 1, 2008.
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's press release issued on October 1, 2008 announcing the closing of the sale of Saskferco Products ULC ("Saskferco") to a subsidiary of Yara International ASA. Mosaic had a 50% equity interest in Saskferco.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibits furnished herewith. The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index hereto are being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall they be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, October 1, 2008  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today net earnings of $1.2 billion, or $2.65 per share, for the first quarter ended August 31, 2008. These results compare with net earnings of $305.5 million, or $0.69 per share, for the quarter ended August 31, 2007.
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 were $4.3 billion, an increase of $2.3 billion, or more than double the amount in the same period a year ago.
Mosaic's gross margin for the first quarter fiscal 2009 was $1.6 billion, or 38.1% of net sales, compared with $521.8 million, or 26.0% of net sales, a year ago. First quarter operating earnings were $1.5 billion, compared with $449.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Financial performance during the quarter continued to benefit from higher selling prices compared to the prior year. The significant increase in selling prices was due to strong agricultural fundamentals and positive fertilizer supply and demand factors. Mosaic also recognized a foreign currency transaction gain of $86.7 million. These positive factors were partially offset by higher raw material costs in the Phosphates segment, increases in Canadian resource taxes and royalties in the Potash segment, and aggregate net unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses of $114.8 million primarily in the Potash and Phosphate segments.
"We delivered another quarter of record results," said Jim Prokopanko, Mosaic's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Against the backdrop of volatile global markets, we are well positioned financially, strategically and operationally to serve our customers worldwide and execute on the strong, long-term fundamentals in the agricultural sector."
Phosphates
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $2.6 billion for the first quarter, more than double net sales of $1.2 billion a year ago. Phosphates' first quarter gross margin was $1.0 billion, or 38.8% of net sales, compared with $353.5 million, or 29.9% of net sales, for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $950.8 million, an increase of $640.6 million compared with $310.2 million in the same period last year. Operating earnings growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was driven by increases in selling prices. These price increases more than offset a 7% decrease in sales volumes to 2.1 million tonnes, higher sulfur and ammonia costs, and net unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses of $74.6 million. The decline in sales volumes was primarily due to North American customer carry-over inventories from this Spring.
The average first quarter DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $1,013 per tonne, which is a $606 per tonne increase compared with a year ago and a $259 per tonne increase compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. This strong upward price momentum leveled off toward the end of the quarter, causing the average realized price to fall slightly below Mosaic's guidance range.
Potash
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $976.4 million for the first quarter, more than double net sales of $411.8 million a year ago. The Potash segment's gross margin increased to $503.2 million in the first quarter, or 51.5% of net sales, compared with $126.6 million a year ago, or 30.7% of net sales. Operating earnings were $477.8 million during the first quarter, or quadruple the operating earnings in the same period last year. The increase in operating earnings was primarily a result of higher selling prices. This increase was partially offset by significantly higher Canadian resource taxes and royalties, net unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses of $41.8 million, and the impact of a 9% decrease in sales volumes.
The average first quarter MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $488 per tonne, which is a $324 per tonne increase compared with a year ago and a $153 per tonne increase compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Realized prices at the end of the first quarter were significantly higher than the average for the quarter and have continued to increase since the end of the quarter.
The Potash segment's total sales volume was 1.9 million tonnes for the first quarter which was lower compared with year-ago first quarter volume of 2.1 million tonnes. The decline in sales volumes was primarily due to lower beginning inventory levels available to meet customer demand, despite comparable production volumes.
Offshore
The Offshore segment's net sales totaled $1.0 billion during the first quarter, or more than double the amount for the same period a year ago. This increase was mainly due to higher selling prices. Gross margin increased to $180.6 million in the first quarter, or 17.2% of net sales, compared to $51.1 million, or 10.3% of net sales, for the same period last year. Offshore first quarter operating earnings of $159.0 million were up $128.9 million compared with a year ago, the result of higher selling prices and the benefit from positioning lower cost inventories in a period of rising selling prices.
 
Other
Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $90.0 million in the first quarter, or 2.1% of net sales, compared to $66.6 million last year, or 3.3% of net sales. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily the result of higher share-based and other compensation expense, and higher external consulting and professional fees.
A foreign currency transaction gain of $86.7 million was recorded for the first quarter compared to a loss of $19.4 million for the same period a year ago. This non-cash gain is the result of the effect of a weakening Canadian dollar on significant U.S. dollar denominated intercompany receivables and cash held by Mosaic's Canadian affiliates.
Income tax expense was $497.7 million in the first quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 30.6% compared to $100.8 million, or an effective tax rate of 25.4% for the same period last year. The lower effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was primarily the result of recording certain discrete tax benefits totaling $20.4 million.
Total equity earnings in non-consolidated subsidiaries were $59.8 million in the first quarter, compared with $11.8 million for the same period a year ago. Mosaic's equity earnings in Saskferco Products ULC increased to $24.9 million for the first quarter compared to a loss of $3.2 million for the same period last year, primarily the result of higher nitrogen selling prices and higher volumes, partially offset by higher natural gas costs. Equity earnings in Fertifos S.A. were $33.7 million for the first quarter compared to $12.1 million for the same period last year, reflecting strong agricultural fundamentals in Brazil. On October 1, 2008, the previously announced sale of Saskferco was completed.
Mosaic ended the first quarter with $2.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents. Cash flow from operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $561.5 million, up from $438.4 million a year ago. Mosaic's total debt as of August 31, 2008 was $1.5 billion compared to $2.2 billion as of August 31, 2007.
Outlook and Financial Guidance
Global demand for crop nutrients is expected to increase while global grain and oilseed stocks continue to decline. Farmers have responded to high agricultural commodity prices by growing record harvests, but it has not been sufficient to build grain and oilseed stocks to more secure levels. To reverse the unsustainable trends in global grain and oilseed stocks, yields need to increase. Improved crop nutrient application rates boost production and increase yields.
Inventories for North American potash producers declined to record low levels in August 2008 and strong global demand continues for potash. Inventories for phosphate producers increased from the low levels of a year ago; however, phosphate fundamentals remain positive and demand is expected to rebound once inventory levels are normalized.
"We expect strong earnings growth to continue in upcoming quarters," said Jim Prokopanko. "Momentum remains strong in the potash market with healthy demand, low inventory levels, and various industry supply disruptions. Momentum has slowed in the Phosphates business near-term due to the combined effects of soft seasonal demand, higher customer inventory levels and falling raw material costs. Accordingly, to better balance
 
inventory levels and supply chain demands, we will reduce planned phosphate production by 500,000 to 1 million tonnes over the next several months. We remain optimistic about the second half outlook for phosphates and will be well positioned to capitalize on that outlook."
Phosphate sales volume guidance for fiscal 2009 has been reduced to a range of 8.0 to 9.0 million tonnes, with the majority of the reduction expected in the second fiscal quarter. Mosaic's average DAP selling price, FOB plant, for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 is estimated to be between $1,020 and $1,080 per tonne.
Potash sales volume guidance for fiscal 2009 is unchanged at 8.2 to 8.6 million tonnes. Mosaic's second quarter fiscal 2009 average MOP selling price, FOB plant, is estimated to be $560 to $620 per tonne. Partially offsetting the benefit of higher projected MOP selling prices will be higher Canadian resource taxes and royalties and increased costs for resources including steel, reagents and labor.
Key factors that affect Mosaic's selling price and volume estimates include current and anticipated agricultural commodity pricing and phosphate raw materials costs, industry and supply chain inventory levels, and China's policy on phosphate exports.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphates and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Thursday, October 2, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. EDT to discuss first quarter earnings results. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. Additionally, the conference call-in number is 888-680-0879 and the passcode is 57351901. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability of fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets subject to competitive market pressures; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy, including but not limited to governmental activities to address rising food and crop nutrient prices; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Financial Highlights
(dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Key Statistics
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, October 1 2008  The Mosaic Company (NYSE:MOS) today announced the completion of the sale of Saskferco Products ULC (Saskferco) to a subsidiary of Yara International ASA (Yara) for approximately $1.6 billion of which Mosaic is entitled to one-half of the proceeds.
,
"The completion of the sale of Saskferco is a key step in our strategic plan and will allow us to focus on our core phosphate and potash businesses," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic. "Working with the government of Saskatchewan and Saskferco has been an excellent experience for Mosaic. We wish Yara much success as Saskferco's new owner."
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphates and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
About Saskferco Products ULC
Saskferco Products ULC is a Saskatchewan, Canada, based producer of nitrogen fertilizer and feed ingredient products. The Mosaic Company and Investment Saskatchewan held their interests in Saskferco Products ULC through Saskferco Products Limited Partnership, a joint venture primarily owned by The Mosaic Company and Investment Saskatchewan.
About Investment Saskatchewan
Investment Saskatchewan is a Saskatchewan Crown corporation that has a mandate to enhance economic growth and diversification through the provision of investment capital and financing and to ensure prudent management of commercially viable investments.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about Mosaic's strategic priorities and future plans. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability of fertilizer, raw material and energy markets subject to competitive market pressures; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in governmental policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation; adverse weather conditions affecting Mosaic's operations in central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation and reclamation differing from management's current estimates; accidents involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at Mosaic's Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals; and changes in financial markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


