FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20080611135334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 9, 2008, The Mosaic Company (the "Company") announced that two of three credit rating agencies, Fitch Inc. and Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, that rate the Company's 7-3/8% senior notes due 2014 and 7-5/8% senior notes due 2016 (the "Senior Notes") have upgraded their ratings of the Senior Notes and other unsecured debt to investment grade status. As a result, most of the restrictive covenants of the Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of December 1, 2006 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, relating to the Senior Notes have fallen away pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.
The specific restrictive covenants of the Indenture that have fallen away include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain restrictive covenants in the Indenture are not affected by the upgrade of the ratings of the Senior Notes and will continue to apply. These continuing restrictive covenants include but are not limited to:
 
 
 
Covenants under the Company's senior secured bank credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") also continue to apply.
A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Although a security rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, any such revision or withdrawal would not affect the fall-away of the covenants relating to the Senior Notes. Each rating should be evaluated separately from any other rating.
Stockholders, holders of the Senior Notes and others who are interested in additional detail about the restrictive covenants or other terms of the Indenture (including those covenants that have fallen away and those that continue to apply) or the Credit Agreement may refer to the descriptions under "Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants" in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007 (the "10-K Report"), Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 10-K Report and the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 30, 2008 (the "8-K Report"), and to copies of the Indenture and the Credit Agreement (including amendments) which are filed as exhibits to the 10-K Report and/or the 8-K Report.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of the Company's announcement regarding the upgrades of the ratings of the Senior Notes and other unsecured debt and the fall-away of certain of the covenants under the Indenture as presented in a press release issued on June 9, 2008.
 
 
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, June 9, 2008  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that two of three credit rating agencies that rate the company's debt, Fitch Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A. and Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, have upgraded Mosaic's unsecured debt ratings to investment grade status. Given these actions, most of the restrictive covenants relating to the company's 7-
 3
/
8
% senior notes due 2014 and 7-
 5
/
8
% senior notes due 2016 (collectively the "Senior Notes") have fallen away.
"This is outstanding news for Mosaic," stated Jim Prokopanko, Mosaic's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Since Mosaic's formation in 2004, we have worked relentlessly to generate cash and pay down our debt. Reaching investment grade status is a milestone and will provide Mosaic with access to lower cost funding sources as well as greater flexibility in making financial, investment and operational decisions."
Certain covenants relating to the Senior Notes will continue to apply. These continuing covenants include limitations on the company's ability to use assets as security in other transactions, mergers with or into other companies, and sale and leaseback transactions, as well as a requirement that certain subsidiaries guarantee the Senior Notes. Covenants under the company's senior secured bank credit facility are not affected by the upgrade of Mosaic's debt ratings and also continue to apply.
A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Although a security rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, any such revision or withdrawal would not affect the fall away of the covenants relating to the Senior Notes. Each rating should be evaluated separately from any other rating.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphates and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.


