FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20080530093045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic") has entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") dated as of May 27, 2008 to its senior secured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders (the "Mosaic Credit Facility"). The amendment made several changes to the Mosaic Credit Facility, including among other things:
 
 
 
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment attached as Exhibit 4 hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4
EXECUTION COPY
SECOND AMENDMENT dated as of May 27, 2008, to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 18, 2005, as amended and restated as of December 1, 2006, as amended (the ""), by and among THE MOSAIC COMPANY, MOSAIC FERTILIZER, LLC, MOSAIC GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC., MOSAIC POTASH COLONSAY ULC, the Foreign Borrowing Subsidiaries party thereto, the LENDERS party thereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that the Lenders approve amendments to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the undersigned Lenders are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, to approve such amendments;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Borrowers and the undersigned Lenders hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby).
Defined Terms.
SECTION 2. Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order therein:
Amendment of Section 1.01.
"" means Saskferco Products Inc., a Saskatchewan corporation.
Saskferco
"" means the distribution by Saskferco to the holders of its Equity Interests (prior to the transfer of such Equity Interests to Saskferco Holdco) of cash and Saskferco Notes in connection with the Saskferco Reorganization.
Saskferco Dividend
"" means a partnership among holders of the Equity Interests in Saskferco (that are holders of such Equity Interests immediately prior to the transfer of such Equity Interests to Saskferco Holdco) or their Affiliates, formed in connection with the Saskferco Reorganization.
Saskferco Holdco
"" means promissory notes of Saskferco issued and distributed pursuant to the Saskferco Dividend.
Saskferco Notes
"" means (a) the formation of Saskferco Holdco and (b) the transfer to Saskferco Holdco of all the Equity Interests of Saskferco; that, after giving effect thereto, the direct and indirect ownership of Saskferco Holdco by the Parent Borrower shall be the same as the direct and indirect ownership by the Parent Borrower of Saskferco before giving effect thereto.
Saskferco Reorganization
provided
SECTION 3. Section 6.01(a) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (xii) thereof in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following:
Amendment of Section 6.01.
(xii) Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries (other than Foreign Loan Parties), including factoring, securitization and similar transactions involving the receivables of such Foreign Subsidiaries, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 10% of the total assets of the Parent Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, as of the end of the fiscal quarter most recently ended prior to such time for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01; that Indebtedness of a Foreign Subsidiary shall not be counted against such limitation to the extent such Indebtedness is (A) supported by a Letter of Credit and (B) such Foreign Subsidiary has agreed (pursuant to an agreement or instrument entered into with the Administrative Agent or pursuant to an agreement or instrument entered into with a Primary Borrower that has been assigned to the Administrative Agent as collateral pursuant to the relevant Security Document in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) to reimburse any drawing under such Letter of Credit;
provided
SECTION 4. Section 6.04 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" appearing at the end of clause (v) thereof, substituting "; and" for the period at the end of clause (w) thereof and inserting the following clause after clause (w) thereof:
Amendment of Section 6.04.
(x) (i) any Saskferco Notes resulting from the Saskferco Dividend, (ii) the transfer of Equity Interests in Saskferco to Saskferco Holdco pursuant to the Saskferco Reorganization and (iii) the contribution to Saskferco Holdco or Saskferco of up to $100,000 to pay expenses incurred in connection with the Saskferco Reorganization.
SECTION 5. (a) Section 6.05 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting "(plus up to an additional $50,000,000 during a fiscal year, but only during one fiscal year)" after the text "Parent Borrower" in clause (c)(ii) of the proviso to clause (c) thereof.
Amendment of Section 6.05.
(b) Section 6.05 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" appearing at the end of clause (r) thereof, inserting "and" at the end of clause (s) thereof and inserting the following after clause (s) thereof:
(t) if the Saskferco Reorganization is consummated, the transfer of Equity Interests in Saskferco to Saskferco Holdco in connection therewith;
 
SECTION 6. Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting Section 6.12 in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof: "[Intentionally Omitted]".
Amendment of Section 6.12.
SECTION 7. Each of the U.S. Borrowers represents and warrants to each of the Lenders that, after giving effect to the amendments contemplated hereby, (a) the representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in the Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Amendment Effective Date and (b) no Default has occurred and is continuing.
Representations and Warranties.
SECTION 8. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date (the "") when the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received (a) copies hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Borrowers and the Required Lenders and (b) to the extent invoiced, payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be paid or reimbursed by any Loan Party hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
Effectiveness.
Amendment Effective Date
SECTION 9. This Amendment shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Applicable Law.
SECTION 10. Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of any party under, the Credit Agreement, nor alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect. This Amendment shall apply and be effective only with respect to the provisions of the Credit Agreement specifically referred to herein. This Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document.
No Other Amendments.
SECTION 11. This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission (or any other means of electronic transmission) shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts.
SECTION 12. Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Amendment and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Amendment.
Headings.
 
SECTION 13. The Primary Borrowers shall reimburse the Administrative Agent for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, including the reasonable fees and expenses of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent.
Expenses.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrowers and the Lenders have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


