FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20091130103913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
On November 23, 2009, The Mosaic Company (the "Company") determined that it would not reopen, and approved the permanent closure of, its Green Bay, Florida concentrated phosphates plant and South Pierce, Florida, phosphoric acid plant, both of which had been indefinitely closed as part of a restructuring of the Company's Phosphates segment at the end of May 2006. In addition, the Company determined that it would no longer use certain idled machinery and equipment. The Company currently estimates that it will incur non-cash charges in the fiscal 2010 second quarter ending November 30, 2009 associated with the permanent closures of the two plants and the idled machinery and equipment in an aggregate amount of approximately $50 million pretax.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a copy of a press release issued by the Company on November 30, 2009 regarding the permanent closure of the Green Bay and South Pierce plants and the idled machinery and equipment referred to in Item 2.06 of this report. In addition, the press release announced that the Company plans to eliminate the reporting of its Offshore business as a separate segment and will reflect the Offshore business as part of its Phosphates segment in its financial statements for the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The change in reported segments will have no effect on the Company's net earnings, total assets or liabilities, or stockholders' equity.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
11.25.09 v.6
Press Release
MEDIA CONTACT:            Rob Litt, 763-577-6187
INVESTOR CONTACT:      Christine Battist, 763-577-2828
PLYMOUTH, MN, November 30, 2009  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it has realigned its business segments to more clearly reflect the Company's evolving business model. The realignment includes moving from three to two business segments by combining the Offshore business segment with the Phosphates business segment. There are no changes to the Potash business segment.
The Company plans to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a current report on Form 8-K with financial information reflecting the historical performance of the realigned segments at a future date.
The Company also announced the permanent closure and write-off of assets at the Green Bay plant and South Pierce phosphoric acid plant that were idled in 2006, in addition to other machinery and equipment in the Company's Florida phosphates operations. The estimated charge associated with these actions will approximate $50 million pre-tax, is non-cash and will be recorded during the Company's second fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2009.
These actions are part of a broad effort to improve returns on invested capital in the Company's phosphates business segment by eliminating idle operating capital and reducing operating costs.
"The change in financial reporting reflects our actions to further align our strong global distribution resources with our North American production assets," said Jim Prokopanko, Chief Executive Officer and President of Mosaic. "Our strategic priorities in Phosphates focus on growing the value of our business and maintaining our position as one of the lowest cost phosphate producers in the world," Prokopanko added.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and the effects of the current economic and financial turmoil; the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of our processes for managing our strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


