FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20090805164520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangement for Named Executive Officer
On July 31, 2009,The Mosaic Company (the "Company") and Steven L. Pinney, Senior Vice President  Phosphate Operations and Supply Chain of the Company and a Named Executive Officer in the Company's proxy statement dated August 25, 2008 for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, who is retiring on August 6, 2009, entered into a Retirement Agreement (the "Agreement") setting forth all matters regarding Mr. Pinney's retirement, including those matters under Mr. Pinney's Amended and Restated Senior Management Severance and Change in Control Agreement dated March 24, 2008. The Agreement provides that, in connection with his retirement, Mr. Pinney is entitled to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Agreement also includes Mr. Pinney's agreement not to, among other matters, (1) disclose confidential information of the Company, and (2) for a period of 12 months following his retirement, (a) solicit the Company's customers, dealers, employees and suppliers, or interfere with the Company's business relationships, or (b) compete with the Company. In addition, Mr. Pinney is required to sign a full and complete release of all claims against the Company as a condition to receipt of the items listed above.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


