FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20091026080659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a copy of a press release issued by The Mosaic Company (the "Company") on October 26, 2009 relating to a special dividend in the amount of approximately $580 million, or $1.30 per share of common stock, payable on December 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on November 12, 2009.
Following the special dividend, the Company's cash allocation policy remains the same: first, invest in the Company's business, next, preserve a healthy liquidity and strategy buffer for flexibility, and then distribute excess cash to shareholders in amounts, form, and timing as determined by the Company's Board of Directors.
The Company intends to continue to issue its regular quarterly dividend the remainder of the year, subject to approval by the Company's Board of Directors.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, October 26, 2009  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today plans to return approximately $580 million to stockholders, or $1.30 per share, through a special cash dividend. The dividend will be financed through cash on hand.
"The decision by Mosaic's Board of Directors to return a significant amount of cash to its shareholders is a reflection of our strong cash position and the confidence we have in our future business prospects and cash flows," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic. "Mosaic's strong balance sheet, which includes a cash position of $2.6 billion at August 31, 2009, provides us the financial flexibility to make this distribution, while at the same time continuing our capital spending program and maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity and financial flexibility."
The Company noted it is reaffirming its guidance for fiscal year 2010 capital spending of $1.0 -1.2 billion. "We remain committed to executing our long-term strategic plans that we expect will drive additional strong cash flow and shareholder value. We also remain committed to maintaining strong credit metrics and an investment grade rating," Prokopanko added.
The special dividend will be paid on December 3, 2009 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 12, 2009.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and the effects of the current economic and financial turmoil; the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of our processes for managing our strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


