FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20090105181433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2008 as presented in a press release issued on January 5, 2009.
 
 
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, January 5, 2009  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today net earnings of $959.8 million, or $2.15 per diluted share, for the second quarter ended November 30, 2008. These results compare with net earnings of $394.0 million, or $0.89 per share, for the second quarter ended November 30, 2007. The Company maintains a strong financial position, with cash and cash equivalents of $2.8 billion as of November 30, 2008.
KEY FACTORS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mosaic had net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 of $3.0 billion, an increase of $811.1 million, or 36.9%, compared to the same period a year ago.
Mosaic's gross margin for the second quarter fiscal 2009 was $773.7 million, or 25.7% of net sales, compared with $623.1 million, or 28.4% of net sales, a year ago. Second quarter operating earnings were $682.0 million compared with $529.6 million a year ago. Mosaic's second quarter results were driven by higher DAP and MOP selling prices and the gain on the sale of Saskferco, offsetting the impact of lower sales volumes and the inventory valuation write-down. Deteriorating market conditions and rapidly declining raw material costs caused phosphate selling prices to decline sharply toward the end of the quarter and were the primary causes of an inventory valuation write-down totaling $293.5 million. Softening market conditions are due to, among other factors, lower grain and oilseed prices, a late North American harvest, congested distribution supply chains and the global economic slowdown.
"Second quarter earnings were up from the prior year as we executed our strategic game plan and benefited from higher realized selling prices, especially in our Potash business unit," said Jim Prokopanko, Mosaic's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Toward the end of
the quarter, however, worldwide crop nutrient sales activity dropped sharply, and it is expected to remain weak through at least the third quarter. Because of these conditions, we are reducing our production to manage excess inventories, reducing capital expenditures, and working to maintain financial strength and flexibility."
Phosphates
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $1.8 billion for the second quarter, compared with net sales of $1.2 billion a year ago. Phosphates' second quarter gross margin was $298.2 million, or 17.0% of net sales, compared with $397.6 million, or 32.3% of net sales, for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $258.8 million compared with $346.8 million in the same period last year. Higher selling prices were more than offset by a combination of factors including a 46% decrease in sales volumes to 1.2 million tonnes, an inventory valuation write-down of $213.2 million, higher raw material costs, and net unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses of $28.1 million. The decline in sales volumes was primarily due to a change in buyer sentiment as a result of the factors previously noted.
The inventory valuation write-down in the second quarter was necessary because the carrying cost of ending phosphate inventories, which included higher sulfur and ammonia costs, exceeded estimates of future phosphate selling prices. Mosaic expects the Phosphate segment's results to be much weaker at least through the third quarter because of lower selling prices and margins, soft sales volumes, and lower production levels. As previously announced, Mosaic reduced phosphate production by approximately one million tonnes through December 2008 and plans to reduce production by up to an additional one million tonnes through fiscal 2009.
The average second quarter DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $1,083 per tonne, which was a $666 per tonne increase compared with a year ago and a $70 per tonne increase compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The price momentum of the past several quarters reversed toward the end of the second quarter due to factors previously noted and significantly lower prices are expected in upcoming quarters.
Potash
Net sales in the Potash segment were $973.2 million for the second quarter, more than double net sales of $431.6 million a year ago. The Potash segment's gross margin increased to $574.9 million in the second quarter, or 59.1% of net sales, compared with $175.2 million, or 40.6% of net sales a year ago. Operating earnings were $547.5 million during the second quarter, or more than triple the operating earnings in the same period last year. The increase in operating earnings was primarily a result of higher selling prices. This increase was partially offset by significantly higher Canadian resource taxes and royalties and the impact of a 15% decline in sales volumes.
The average second quarter MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $529 per tonne, which is a $355 per tonne increase compared with a year ago and a $41 per tonne increase compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2009. As previously disclosed, this was below Mosaic's prior guidance range of $560 to $620 per tonne, primarily due to fewer high-priced spot sales in certain locations.
The Potash segment's total sales volume was 1.7 million tonnes for the second quarter compared with second quarter volume of 2.0 million tonnes a year ago. The decline in sales volumes was primarily due to lower customer demand. Sales volumes are expected to remain weak at least through the third quarter with realized prices expected to decline slightly compared to second quarter levels. To better manage growing inventory levels, Mosaic is reducing potash production by up to one million tonnes in the second half of fiscal 2009.
 
Offshore
The Offshore segment's net sales totaled $562.4 million during the second quarter compared with $644.3 million for the same period a year ago. During the second quarter, Mosaic changed the timing of when sales subject to the Indian government subsidy are recognized until payment has been received. Gross margin decreased to a loss of $95.2 million in the second quarter compared to a gross margin of $50.1 million for the same period last year. Offshore incurred an operating loss of $120.1 million in the second quarter compared to operating earnings of $25.7 million a year ago. The operating loss resulted from an inventory valuation write-down of $149.3 million and lower sales volumes. Mosaic expects the Offshore segment's results to remain weak at least through fiscal 2009, primarily due to slow demand mainly in Brazil.
Other
Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $76.8 million in the second quarter, or 2.6% of net sales, compared to $79.8 million last year, or 3.6% of net sales.
Net interest expense totaled $8.3 million in the second quarter, down from $25.5 million a year ago, due to higher cash balances and lower debt levels.
A foreign currency transaction gain of $32.3 million was recorded for the second quarter compared to a loss of $52.4 million for the same period a year ago. This non-cash gain is the result of the effect of a weakening Canadian dollar on significant U.S. dollar denominated intercompany receivables and cash held by Mosaic's Canadian affiliates, partially offset by the effect of a weakening Brazilian Real on significant U.S. dollar denominated payables.
Net unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses impacted gross margin by $20.2 million, or $0.03 share, compared to net unrealized derivative losses of $1.7 million a year ago, with the primary impact in the Phosphates segment as previously noted.
Mosaic recorded a pre-tax gain of $673.4 million or $458.9 million after tax ($1.03 per share) related to the sale of its ownership interest in Saskferco Products ULC in October 2008.
Income tax expense was $451.2 million in the second quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 32.6% compared to $100.9 million, or an effective tax rate of 22.3% for the same period last year. The effective tax rate in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 included a cost specific to the period resulting from the recording of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance for Brazil due to the weaker financial results and soft near-term outlook for Brazil, while tax expense in the year-ago quarter included a $35.9 million net benefit specific to that period.
Total equity earnings in non-consolidated subsidiaries were $28.7 million in the second quarter, compared with $45.5 million for the same period a year ago. Mosaic's equity earnings in Saskferco decreased to $7.4 million for the second quarter compared to $24.0 million for the same period last year, primarily the result of the sale of Saskferco during the quarter. Equity earnings in Fertifos S.A. were $23.1 million for the second quarter compared to $18.8 million for the same period last year.
Mosaic ended the second quarter with $2.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents. Cash flow from operating activities in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 was $386.5 million, a decline
 
from $542.5 million a year ago, largely due to the timing of tax payments. Mosaic's total debt as of November 30, 2008 was $1.4 billion compared to $1.7 billion as of November 30, 2007. Mosaic expects its operating cash flow to be negative at least through the third quarter as a result of the weak near-term outlook.
Year-to-Date
For the first half ended November 30, 2008, net sales were $7.3 billion, an increase of 74.6% compared to last year. Year-to-date operating earnings were $2.2 billion compared with $979.2 million for the same period a year ago. Year-to-date SG&A expenses were $166.8 million compared with $146.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2008. A foreign currency transaction gain of $119.0 million was recorded for the first half of fiscal 2009, compared to a loss of $71.8 million for the same period a year ago. Equity earnings in non-consolidated entities increased yearto-date to $88.5 million from $57.3 million last year. The first half of fiscal 2009 also includes the $673.4 million gain on the sale of Mosaic's interest in Saskferco.
Outlook
Long-term world grain and oilseed use is expected to continue to increase at a faster pace than historical trends due to steady population growth, higher per capita incomes and further increases in biofuels production. This will require additional harvested area and steady increases in yields, which can be accomplished through more intensive and balanced crop nutrient use and improved crop genetics.
"We continue to believe long-term agriculture fundamentals are excellent," said Jim Prokopanko, Mosaic's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Bumper crops are still required to secure the world's food supply and crop nutrients will play an essential role in achieving that objective. Mosaic is well positioned strategically and financially to respond to these fundamentals with one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry and leading global positions in both potash and phosphates."
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphates and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Tuesday, January 6, 2009 at 9:00 a.m. EST to discuss second quarter earnings results. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at mosaicco.com/investors. Additionally, the conference call-in number is 888-679-8038 and the passcode is 30488542. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and the effects of the current economic and financial turmoil; the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other
 
governmental regulation; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


