FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20091221172746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
This report should be read in conjunction with The Mosaic Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended August 31, 2009, including the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Introduction
On November 30, 2009, The Mosaic Company ("", and individually or in any combination with its consolidated subsidiaries, "", "", "", or the "") announced that it was realigning its business segments (the "") to more clearly reflect the Company's evolving business model. Our business segments are determined by management based upon factors such as products and services, production processes, technologies, market dynamics, and for which segment financial information is readily available for our chief operating decision maker. The Realignment consists of moving from three to two business segments by combining our Offshore business segment with our Phosphates business segment as this is how our chief operating decision maker began viewing and evaluating our operations during the second quarter. Our reported Potash business segment results are not affected by the Realignment; however, our previously reported average selling price for muriate of potash ) and K-Mag has been adjusted to eliminate intersegment transactions.
Mosaic
we
us
our
Company
Realignment
("MOP"
Below is information regarding the Company, our business segments, and certain factors that can affect our results of operations and financial condition following the Realignment, as well as key statistics for our Phosphates segment adjusted to reflect the Realignment.
The Company and Our Business Segments
We are one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. We conduct our business through wholly and majority owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest, including consolidated variable interest entities and investments accounted for by the equity method. After the Realignment, we are organized in two business segments.
Our business segment owns and operates mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment's results have historically included North American distribution activities and the results of Phosphate Chemicals Export Association, Inc. (""), a U.S. Webb-Pomerene Act association of phosphate producers which exports concentrated phosphate crop nutrient products around the world for us and PhosChem's other member.
Phosphates
PhosChem
In the Realignment, we eliminated reporting our Offshore business as a separate segment and now include the former Offshore business as part of our Phosphates segment. Our former Offshore business was principally an international distributor of crop nutrients. Our Phosphates business segment now includes North American distribution activities, the results of PhosChem, and our
 
international distribution activities which include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in several key international countries, including Brazil. In addition, the international distribution activities include blending, bagging and three single superphosphate production facilities, as well as strategic equity interests in crop nutrient producers in Brazil and China. The blending and bagging production facilities primarily produce blended crop nutrients ("") from phosphate, potash and nitrogen. The average product mix in our Blends (by volumes) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25% nitrogen, although this mix can differ based on seasonal and other factors.
Blends
Our international distribution operations have historically served as an outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends, and we expect to expand this role in the future. Our Potash segment also has historically furnished a portion of the raw material needs for the production of Blends, and is expected to continue to do so in the future. The Realignment is intended to further align our strong global distribution resources with our North American production assets.
Our business segment owns and operates potash mines and production facilities in Canada and the U.S. which produce potash-based crop nutrients, animal feed ingredients and industrial products. Potash sales include domestic and international sales. We are a member of Canpotex, Limited (""), an export association of Canadian potash producers through which we sell our Canadian potash internationally.
Potash
Canpotex
Certain Key Factors that can Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Our primary products, phosphate and potash crop nutrients and Blends, are, to a large extent, global commodities that are also available from a number of domestic and international competitors, and are sold by negotiated contracts or by reference to published market prices. The most important competitive factor for our products is delivered price. As a result, the markets for our products are highly competitive. Business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry are the most significant factors affecting worldwide demand for crop nutrients. The profitability of our businesses is heavily influenced by worldwide supply and demand for our products, which affects our sales prices and volumes. Our costs per tonne to produce our products are also heavily influenced by worldwide supply and demand because of the significant fixed costs associated with owning and operating our major facilities. World prices for the key inputs for concentrated phosphate products, including ammonia, sulfur and phosphate rock, have an effect on industry-wide phosphate prices and costs. The primary feedstock for producing ammonia is natural gas, and costs for ammonia are generally highly dependent on natural gas prices. Sulfur is a world commodity that is primarily produced as a byproduct of oil refining, where the cost is based on supply and demand for sulfur. We produce substantially all of our requirements for phosphate rock.
Prior to the Realignment, our reported Phosphates segment net sales, sales volumes and average selling price included intercompany sales to our Offshore segment, and our reported Offshore net sales included sales of products purchased from our Phosphates segment. The intercompany transactions were then eliminated at the consolidated level. As a result of the Realignment, we are no longer separately reporting intercompany sales from our North American phosphate production operations to our international distribution operations. Although this does not affect consolidated net sales, it does reduce our reported concentrated phosphate crop nutrient sales volumes because a portion of our North American concentrated phosphate crop nutrient production is incorporated in our reported sales volumes of Blends. Our Phosphates segment's reported selling price per tonne for diammonium phosphate ) is also affected by the segment realignment as it has been adjusted to eliminate intersegment transactions.
("DAP"
 
Key Metrics Following the Realignment
The tables below show net sales, gross margin, operating earnings (loss) and depreciation, depletion and amortization for our reportable segments for each of the eight fiscal quarters through the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2009, adjusted to reflect the Realignment and as previously reported:
Condensed Consolidated Financial HighlightsAs Revised
(dollars in millions)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Financial HighlightsAs Previously Reported
(dollars in millions)
 
 
The tables below show certain additional key statistics for our business for each of the eight fiscal quarters through the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2009, adjusted to reflect the Realignment and as previously reported:
Key StatisticsAs Revised
 
 
Key StatisticsAs Previously Reported
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


