FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20100217155935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2010, The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic," and Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination, being referred to as the "Company") and its subsidiary Mosaic Fertilizantes do Brasil S.A. ("Mosaic Brazil") entered into a Share Purchase Agreement and Other Covenants (the "Share Agreement") with Vale S.A. ("Vale") and its subsidiaries Minerao Nacque S.A. ("Nacque") and Vale International S.A. ("International"). In connection with the Share Agreement:
 
 
Exercise of the Fosfertil Options is subject to Nacque's closing of its previously announced purchase, from Bunge Limited and certain of its subsidiaries ("Bunge Group"), of certain assets of Bunge Group in Brazil, including Bunge Group's interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos. Exercise of any of the Options is subject to the Company and International entering into a definitive stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Holdings Option Agreement on terms substantially consistent with those set forth in the Holdings Option Agreement. The Holdings Option Agreement provides for the parties to reasonably and in good faith negotiate the definitive Stock Purchase Agreement for a 21-day period.
If either Nacque and International, on the one hand, or the Company, on the other hand, exercises their respective Options, the sale of the Cubato plant is expected to follow the closing of the sale of Mosaic's interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos.
Fosfertil is a Brazilian publicly traded company and the largest phosphate-based crop nutrient producer in Brazil. Its subsidiary Ultrafertil, S.A., is a significant nitrogen company in Brazil. Fertifos is a holding company through which several fertilizer companies in Brazil own a 56.7% equity interest in Fosfertil.
Mosaic Brazil currently holds Mosaic's 20.1% interest in Fosfertil through a 1.3% direct equity interest in Fosfertil and approximately a 33% equity interest in Fertifos. Mosaic Brazil also owns the Cubato plant, which produces single superphosphate fertilizer and animal feed ingredients and engages in bagging, blending, storage and warehouse operations.
Following the exercise of the Options, Mosaic Brazil is expected to continue its fertilizer and animal feed ingredient blending and distribution business in Brazil, as well as its production of single superphosphate and port activities at the Paranagua, Brazil complex of its 62.1% owned
subsidiary, Fospar, S.A. Accordingly, in order to facilitate the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, prior to exercise of the Options, Mosaic expects to segregate Mosaic Brazil's ownership of the Fosfertil and Fertifos stock and the Cubato facility into separate subsidiaries of the Company. Mosaic anticipates that the segregation of Mosaic Brazil's ownership of the Fosfertil and Fertifos stock and the Cubato facility into separate subsidiaries may not be completed until the latter half of calendar 2010.
Under the Transaction Agreements, in general and subject to certain exceptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The aggregate purchase price for Mosaic's stakes in Fosfertil and Fertifos and the Cubato operations is in excess of $1 billion.
Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements is subject to a number of other customary conditions. The Transaction Agreements also include other customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management as of the date of this report and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to Nacque's closing of its previously announced purchase of certain assets of Bunge Group in Brazil, including Bunge Group's
interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos; the successful negotiation by the Company and International of the Stock Purchase Agreement and compliance with the covenants, representations and warranties in, and the satisfaction of the other conditions precedent to the closing of the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Agreements; the elections by either Nacque and International, on the one hand, or the Company, on the other hand, to exercise their respective Options; the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and the effects of the current economic and financial turmoil; changes in the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


