FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20101214122405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2010, The Mosaic Company announced its plans to redeem the remaining $455 million aggregate principal amount of its 7-3/8% senior notes due December 2014 (the "Notes") pursuant to the terms of the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 relating to the Notes. A copy of the press release announcing the redemption of the Notes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Notes are being redeemed on January 13, 2011 at a price of $1,036.88 per $1,000 principal amount, together with interest accrued and unpaid to the redemption date of $8.6042 per $1,000 in principal amount of the Notes.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, December 9, 2010 - The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it plans to redeem the remaining $455 million aggregate principal amount of its 7-3/8% senior notes due December 2014 (the "Notes") pursuant to the terms of the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 relating to the Notes. The redemption date is expected to be January 13, 2011. The Company expects that its annual interest expense will be reduced by approximately $34 million, upon redemption of the Notes. The redemption will be funded from available cash generated by the ongoing business operations of Mosaic.
The Notes will be redeemed at a price of $1,036.88 per $1,000 principal amount, together with interest accrued and unpaid to the redemption date. The Company will record a charge of approximately $19 million in its third fiscal quarter, primarily related to the call premium and the write-off of unamortized fees.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of
inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, or revocation of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


