FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20100723080353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2010 as presented in a press release issued on July 22, 2010.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, July 22, 2010  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today net earnings of $396.1 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter ended May 31, 2010. These results compare with net earnings of $146.9 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter ended May 31, 2009.
KEY ITEMS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mosaic had net sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 of $1.9 billion, an increase from $1.6 billion, or 17 percent, compared to the same period last year.
Mosaic's gross margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $687.6 million, or 37 percent of net sales, compared with $204.1 million, or 13 percent of net sales, a year ago. Fourth quarter operating earnings were $547.6 million, an improvement of $421.3 million over the prior year. The increases in gross margin and operating earnings were primarily due to improved phosphates selling prices, lower sulfur costs and increased potash sales volumes, partially offset by lower potash selling prices.
"We are pleased with our strong fourth quarter results," said Jim Prokopanko, Mosaic's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Crop nutrient application rates and shipments have snapped back from last year's levels and a strong recovery in both the phosphates and potash markets is underway."
Phosphates
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $1.2 billion for the fourth quarter, comparable to the prior year. Phosphates' fourth quarter gross margin was $306.6 million, or 26 percent of net sales, compared with a loss of $31.9 million for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $221.1 million, an increase of $300.3 million over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher selling prices and lower sulfur costs. In addition, fiscal 2009 fourth quarter results included a $61.4 million inventory lower of cost or market write-down.
The average fourth quarter DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $438 per tonne, compared to $365 a year ago and $336 in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
Phosphates segment total sales volumes were 2.3 million tonnes, compared to 2.5 million tonnes a year ago. Declines in International and Blend crop nutrient volumes from the year ago quarter were partially offset by an increase in North American crop nutrient demand.
Mosaic's North American phosphate production was 1.9 million tonnes compared with 2.0 million tonnes a year ago.
"Our Phosphates gross margin increased significantly compared to a year ago due to strong demand, solid execution, the rebound in phosphate prices, product mix shifts and improved sentiment in agricultural commodity markets," said Prokopanko. "The phosphate market is robust. North American producer inventories are likely to remain below average throughout this fiscal year and demand remains strong, particularly in India, Brazil and North America."
Potash
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $696.5 million for the fourth quarter, nearly double the level of sales from a year ago of $386.8 million. The Potash segment's gross margin increased to $378.1 million in the fourth quarter, or 54 percent of net sales, compared with $221.2 million, or 57 percent of net sales in the same period last year. Operating earnings were $346.9 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $198.6 million in the prior year. The improvement in fourth quarter operating earnings was due to significantly improved sales volumes and the favorable effect of higher production volumes, partially offset by a decline in selling prices.
The average fourth quarter MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $336 per tonne compared to $540 a year ago and was down modestly from $356 in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
The Potash segment's total sales volume for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 nearly tripled from a year ago to 1.8 million tonnes as a result of rebounding demand in all key markets.
Potash production was 1.9 million tonnes, up sharply from 0.7 million tonnes a year ago. Production rates were increased in the third quarter and continued in the fourth quarter due to improved demand for potash.
"Our potash business is returning to normal, demand is getting back on track and shipments are expected to recover in a two-step process. North American producer inventories have declined sharply during the last six months and are expected to remain at or near 3-year averages throughout the fiscal year," said Prokopanko.
 
Other
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $113.7 million compared to $83.3 million for the same period a year ago. The increase was due to a variety of items including higher incentive compensation and consulting costs.
A foreign currency transaction loss of $0.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter compared to a loss of $297.9 million for the same period last year. The year ago loss was largely the result of the effect of a weaker U.S. dollar on significant U.S. dollar denominated intercompany receivables and cash held by Mosaic's Canadian subsidiaries. The Company intentionally does not hedge this activity as it does not represent economic or cash flow exposure.
Net unrealized mark-to-market derivative gains, included in cost of goods sold, were $9.3 million compared to net unrealized derivative gains of $30.9 million a year ago.
Income tax expense was $138.8 million in the fourth quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 26 percent, compared to an income tax benefit of $330.3 million for the same period last year.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $532.1 million compared to $305.8 million in the year ago quarter. The increase in cash flow from operating activities, primarily due to higher net earnings, funded the Company's increased capital expenditures in the quarter of $275.0 million. Mosaic's total debt and cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2010 were $1.3 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively.
Year-to-Date
For the year ended May 31, 2010, net sales were $6.8 billion, a decline of 34 percent from $10.3 billion reported in fiscal 2009. Year-to-date operating earnings were $1.3 billion compared to $2.4 billion for the same period last year. Operating earnings in fiscal 2010 results include a $51.2 million pre-tax charge related to the write-off of certain assets while operating earnings in fiscal 2009 results include a $383.2 million inventory lower of cost or market write-down. A foreign currency transaction loss of $32.4 million was recorded for fiscal 2010 compared with a loss of $131.8 million for the same period a year ago. Unrealized mark-to-market derivative gains, primarily on natural gas contracts, included in cost of goods sold, were $72.7 million compared to losses of $134.6 million the prior year. Equity earnings in non-consolidated entities was a loss of $10.9 million compared with earnings of $100.1 million last year. Fiscal 2009 results also included a $673.4 million gain on the sale of Mosaic's interest in Saskferco Products ULC in October 2008.
Market Outlook
Back-to-back record harvests have built global grain and oilseed stocks to more secure levels. However, grain and oilseed demand continues to increase at a swift and steady pace and farmers will need to continue to plant record area and reap record yields in order to meet projected demand.
Recent statistics indicate a strong recovery in phosphate and potash demand is underway. After the industry slowdown in 2009, phosphate shipments have nearly recovered in one big step while potash shipments are expected to recover in two steps.
Global phosphate shipments are projected to climb to 54 to 56 million tonnes in calendar 2010 and 55 to 57 million tonnes in calendar 2011. Key growth regions for phosphates include India, Brazil, and Argentina. India's phosphate imports could reach record levels during the fertilizer year ending March 2011 with estimates in the 7.5 million tonne range, assuming normal monsoon rainfall. Brazil imports are expected to be around 2.5 million tonnes in calendar 2010 with peak shipments expected over the next 60 days.
 
Global potash shipments are projected to climb to 46 to 48 million tonnes in calendar 2010 and to further increase to 52 to 54 million tonnes in calendar 2011. Imports by Brazil, China, India and other Asian regions are expected to drive the increase in potash demand. Brazilian shipments are estimated to be over 6 million tonnes in 2010 while China's imports are estimated to be in the 5.5 million tonne range. India's appetite for potash is expected to rebound to 5.8 million tonnes in calendar 2010.
"Mosaic's future is bright. Phosphate demand is strong, potash demand is recovering and prospects for the agricultural sector are positive. Market sentiment is improving and is beginning to align with positive underlying fundamentals," Prokopanko added.
Financial Guidance
Total sales volumes for the Phosphates segment are expected to range from 2.8 to 3.2 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Mosaic's realized DAP price, FOB plant, for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is estimated to be $410 to $440 per tonne.
Total sales volumes for the Potash segment are expected to range from 1.2 to 1.5 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Significantly higher sales volumes are expected in the Company's second fiscal quarter. Mosaic's realized MOP price, FOB plant, for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is estimated to be in the range of $300 to $330 per tonne.
The Company's operating rate at its North American phosphates operations is expected to range between 85 and 90 percent of capacity during the first quarter. The first quarter operating rate in the Potash segment is expected to range between 60 and 65 percent, down from the fourth quarter due to planned seasonal turnarounds.
The Company continues to advance its brownfield potash expansion plans at its three Saskatchewan, Canada mine sites and to fund projects that improve efficiencies. Capital spending for fiscal 2011 is expected to range from $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion. In addition, the Company has closed on a $385 million investment in the Miski Mayo phosphate rock mine joint venture located in the Bayovar region of Peru which will be accounted for as an equity investment.
Selling, general and administrative expenses are estimated to range between $360 million to $380 million in fiscal 2011.
Mosaic estimates an effective income tax rate in the 30 percent range, exclusive of the expected sale of the Company's equity investment in Fosfertil S.A.
Canadian resource taxes and royalties for fiscal 2011 will continue to be favorably impacted by the resource tax deduction related to the Company's potash expansion plans. Canadian resource taxes and royalties are estimated to range between $150 million to $200 million in fiscal 2011. Management's estimate of the resource tax and royalties requires management to make significant assumptions about a number of factors, primarily projected selling prices and volumes, capital spending and foreign currency exchange rates. Canadian resource taxes and royalties are included as a component of cost of goods sold in the Company's consolidated income statement.
 
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Friday, July 23, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. EDT to discuss fourth quarter earnings results. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. Additionally, the conference call-in number is 888-713-4215 and the passcode is 75349645. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


