FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110119071049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merger and Distribution Agreement
On January 18, 2011, The Mosaic Company ("Mosaic"), Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill"), GNS II (U.S.) Corp. ("M Holdings"), a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic, GNS Merger Sub LLC, a limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings ("Merger Sub", and together with M Holdings and Mosaic, the "Mosaic Parties") and, for the limited purposes set forth therein, the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Acorn Trust, the Lilac Trust and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust (collectively, the "MAC Trusts"), entered into a Merger and Distribution Agreement (the "Merger Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, pursuant to which the parties have agreed to a series of transactions regarding the split-off and distribution of the Mosaic shares currently owned by Cargill (the "transactions").
Recapitalization of M Holdings
Prior to the effective time of the merger (described below) and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings is to be amended to, among other things, authorize M Holdings to issue three classes of common stock: (i) M Holdings common stock, which is to be entitled to one vote per share on all matters on which holders of M Holdings common stock would be entitled to vote; (ii) four series of M Holdings class A common stock, which is to be entitled to one vote per share on all matters on which holders of M Holdings class A common stock would be entitled to vote; and (iii) three series of M Holdings class B common stock, which would be entitled to 10 votes per share solely with respect to voting for the election of M Holdings' board of directors and otherwise to one vote per share on all matters on which holders of M Holdings class B common stock would be entitled to vote.
Merger
Following the amendments to the M Holdings certificate of incorporation, Merger Sub, a newly formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings, is to merge with and into Mosaic, with Mosaic surviving the merger and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings (the "merger"). At the effective time of the merger, (i) a portion of the Mosaic common stock held by Cargill at such time would be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of the different series of M Holdings class A common stock and M Holdings class B common stock; and (ii) each of the other outstanding shares of Mosaic common stock at such time would be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of M Holdings common stock. M Holdings will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" promptly following completion of the merger.
Split-off
Immediately following the effective time of the merger, Cargill is to consummate a split-off (the "split-off") in which it would exchange all of the shares of M Holdings class A common stock, M Holdings class B common stock and M Holdings common stock it receives in the merger (other than shares of M Holdings common stock to be retained by Cargill (the "Cargill retained shares")) for all or a portion of the outstanding shares of Cargill common stock held by the MAC Trusts and by other Cargill stockholders who participate in the split-off ("exchanging Cargill stockholders"). Subject to certain conditions, Cargill will determine the structure and terms and conditions of the split-off. Pursuant to the terms of an exchange agreement between Cargill and the MAC Trusts, the MAC Trusts have agreed to participate in an exchange offer in which they would exchange all of their shares of Cargill common stock for shares of M Holdings. Pursuant to certain tender and support agreements, certain other Cargill stockholders have agreed to tender a portion of their shares of Cargill common stock in the exchange offer.
Also pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Cargill may consummate a debt exchange (the "initial debt exchange"), pursuant to which it would exchange a portion of the shares of M Holdings common stock it receives in the merger for indebtedness of Cargill pursuant to one or more debt exchange agreements, and Cargill may subsequently consummate one or more follow-on debt exchanges (together with initial debt exchange, the "debt exchanges"). Subject to certain conditions, Cargill will determine the structure, terms and conditions of any debt exchanges.
Representations and Warranties; Covenants
Each of the Mosaic Parties and Cargill has made representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement. The parties have also undertaken various covenants in the Merger Agreement. Mosaic has undertaken various covenants in the Merger Agreement in respect of its interim operations, pursuant to which, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, it has agreed that, prior to the closing of the merger, it will not amend its or M Holdings' organizational documents, adopt certain plans of liquidation or dissolution, make certain
changes to its line of business, effect certain acquisitions, issues, sales, grants, redemptions or other disposals of its own securities or grant certain rights over them, accelerate the exercise date of equity awards, make certain acquisitions or dispositions of businesses, assets or other properties, declare special dividends, or incur liabilities or obligations outside the ordinary course. In addition, Mosaic has agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 which shall include a proxy statement, seeking stockholder approval of the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Mosaic common stock and the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Mosaic common stock not held by Cargill and its subsidiaries, and to hold a stockholders meeting for such purpose.
Cargill has also agreed, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, to vote, or cause to be voted, at the Mosaic stockholders meeting, all shares of Mosaic common stock held by Cargill and its subsidiaries in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement and any other matters to be implemented after the closing of the transactions and that are necessary to consummate the transactions. Cargill has undertaken various covenants restricting its ability, until the earlier of the closing or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, to transfer the shares of Mosaic common stock, participate in an acquisition of securities of Mosaic or its subsidiaries or a business combination, recapitalization, restructuring, liquidation, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction with respect to Mosaic or any of its subsidiaries, solicit proxies with respect to the voting of any Mosaic common stock, participate in a group (other than with Cargill's affiliates) with respect to any of the shares of Mosaic common stock, or submit to Mosaic stockholders any written consent or call a special meeting of Mosaic's stockholders. Cargill has also agreed that, until the earlier of the closing or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, except as permitted in accordance with the Merger Agreement, it will not solicit alternative proposals, or participate in discussions with, or furnish information concerning Cargill or Mosaic to, any other person in connection with an alternative proposal.
Conditions
The closing of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by each of Mosaic and Cargill of certain conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the obligation of Mosaic to close the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the agreement of Cargill that it will consummate the split-off and that each stockholder of Cargill who is expected, after the consummation of the split-off, to beneficially own shares of M Holdings representing 5% of more of the voting power for the election of the M Holdings board of directors, will execute and deliver to M Holdings the Governance Agreement (as described below).
The obligation of Cargill to effect the closing of the merger is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain other conditions, including (i) that there is no 5% stockholder who actively participates in the management or operation of Mosaic; (ii) receipt of a tax certificate from Mosaic and a tax opinion; and (iii) no "Material Market Event" (as defined in the Merger Agreement) shall have occurred.
Termination
The Merger Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the effective time of the merger:
 
 
 
In the event of termination under certain conditions, as described in the Merger Agreement (including in the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated because Cargill's board of directors determines in its sole discretion that the transactions are not in the best interest of Cargill and that then-present market conditions are not consistent with achieving Cargill's business objective), Cargill will be required to pay to Mosaic a termination fee of $200 million, which would be distributed by Mosaic to the holders of Mosaic common stock (other than Cargill and its subsidiaries) on a pro-rata basis.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement, merger, split-off and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Merger Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Registration Agreement
On January 18, 2011, Mosaic, M Holdings, Cargill and the MAC Trusts entered into a Registration Agreement (the "Registration Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.2.
Pursuant to the Registration Agreement, following the split-off, M Holdings has agreed to conduct a number of registered secondary offerings ("formation offerings") to provide for the sale of the Cargill retained shares and 49.5 million shares of Mosaic stock received by the MAC Trusts in the split-off. The Cargill retained shares may be used in the debt exchanges and sold by the exchanging Cargill debtholders in the formation offerings. The first formation offering will occur immediately following the completion of the split-off and the initial debt exchange. Up to three additional formation offerings may then be conducted within 15 months after the split-off.
All other shares of M Holdings stock received by the MAC Trusts and the other Cargill stockholders who participate in the split-off and not sold in the formation offerings (an estimated 129 million shares in the aggregate) would generally not be transferable for periods ranging from two and a half to four and a half years after the closing of the split-off. The transfer restrictions on these shares of M Holdings stock would be released, and the shares would become transferable, in three equal annual installments beginning on the two and half year anniversary of the split-off. In connection with each annual release of the restricted shares of M Holdings stock, pursuant to the terms of the Registration Agreement, M Holdings would, at the request of the MAC Trusts or, if the MAC Trusts decline to so request, at its own election, register the shares of M Holdings stock for sale in a secondary "demand" offering that could occur each year after the second anniversary of the closing of the split-off, with the first such secondary "demand" offering occurring not earlier than twelve months after the last of the formation offerings or certain primary equity issuances by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Registration Agreement.
The Registration Agreement also contains additional provisions relating to private and market sales under certain specified conditions and the timing of and procedures for each of the transactions described above.
The Registration Agreement also contains certain restrictions regarding M Holdings' ability to issue equity and buy back stock for a period of up to two and a half years following the closing of the split-off.
The foregoing description of the formation offerings and the Registration Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Registration Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Tax Agreement
On January 18, 2011, Mosaic, M Holdings and Cargill entered into a Tax Agreement (the "Tax Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.3. The Tax Agreement governs Mosaic's and M Holdings' tax related obligations with respect to the transaction, and it contains representations made by Mosaic and M Holdings in connection with the receipt of the IRS private letter ruling. The Tax Agreement also contains restrictions on M Holdings' actions following the split-off, including limitations on M Holdings' right to issue, redeem, transfer or approve the transfer of its equity securities, including in connection with a merger or business combination. Any actions by M Holdings that violate such limitations constitute "prohibited acts" under the Tax Agreement, as do certain other actions that could cause the transactions to be taxable to Cargill. However, any such actions may be undertaken by M Holdings if it obtains an opinion, satisfactory to Cargill, that such action(s) will not result in the transactions being treated as taxable to Cargill. This would potentially allow M Holdings the flexibility to take such actions (upon receipt of an opinion described above) based on the then-present facts and circumstances. The Tax Agreement details Mosaic's and M Holdings' obligation to indemnify Cargill in the event that any prohibited acts, or a breach of Mosaic's representations or covenants, cause the split-off and the debt exchanges to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions. A receipt of a tax opinion described above does not relieve Mosaic from these indemnification obligations. The Tax Agreement also provides the parties' rights to participate in and control a tax audit of the transactions.
The foregoing description of the Tax Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Tax Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Governance Agreement
On January 18, 2011, Mosaic, M Holdings, the MAC Trusts and the other stockholder parties thereto entered into a Governance Agreement (the "Governance Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.4. As a condition to closing the merger, the MAC Trusts and any other Cargill stockholder that is participating in the split-off, who, to Cargill's knowledge at the time of closing is reasonably expected to, or be part of a group of stockholders who will, beneficially own 5% or more of the voting power of M Holdings for the election of directors following the split-off, will be subject to the Governance Agreement. Pursuant to the Governance Agreement, each such "significant stockholder" is to be subject to certain transfer and standstill restrictions. In addition, until the earlier of the third anniversary of the closing and the date on which such stockholder beneficially owns less than 10% of the total voting power, such stockholder agrees, among other things, to vote its shares of M Holdings stock (other than for the election of directors and for a proposal to convert the M Holdings class B common stock into M Holdings class A common stock and/or M Holdings common stock (or a combination thereof)) at all meetings of the M Holdings' stockholders in accordance with the board's recommendation with respect to each matter, so long as holders of a majority of the voting securities owned by all holders other than the significant stockholders who have submitted proxies to the company in respect of such meeting have agreed to vote their securities in such proxies in accordance with the board's recommendation on such matter.
The foregoing description of the Governance Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Governance Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Registration Rights Agreement
On January 18, 2011, M Holdings and the MAC Trusts entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.5. The Registration Rights Agreement generally provides that, following 180 days after the four-and-a-half year anniversary of the split-off (the "effective date"), the MAC Trusts would have two rights to request that M Holdings file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, subject to certain limitations and conditions described therein, pursuant to which the MAC Trusts could sell any remaining shares of M Holdings that the MAC Trusts received in the split-off and did not otherwise dispose of at such time.
The foregoing description of the Registration Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Registration Rights Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.5 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Safe Harbor Statement
This Current Report on Form 8-K (including information included or incorporated by reference herein) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the proposed transaction, the terms and the effect of the proposed transaction, the nature and impact of the proposed transaction, capitalization of Mosaic following completion of the proposed transaction, benefits of the proposed transaction; future strategic plans and other statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Mosaic's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to risks and uncertainties arising from the possibility that the closing of the transaction may be delayed or may not occur; the expected timeline for completing the transaction; difficulties with realization of the benefits of the proposed
transaction; the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation and implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, or revocation of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including, among others, asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental obligations, or Canadian resource taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in Mosaic's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed transaction, M Holdings will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Mosaic that also constitutes a prospectus of M Holdings. Mosaic will deliver the final proxy statement/prospectus to its stockholders. You may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Mosaic and M Holdings with the SEC, without charge, at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus (when it is available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com under the tab "Investors".
Investors and holders of Mosaic securities are strongly encouraged to read the proxy statement/prospectus (and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC) when it becomes available because it will contain important information relating to the proposed transaction.
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Such an offer may be made solely by a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Accordingly, the proxy solicitation for the merger described in this communication has not commenced. The distribution of this communication may, in some countries, be restricted by law or regulation. Accordingly, persons who come into possession of this document should inform themselves of and observe these restrictions.
Participants in this Transaction
Mosaic and M Holdings and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Mosaic's stockholders with respect to the proposed transaction. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the Mosaic stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction will be set forth in the proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about the executive officers and directors of Mosaic in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on July 23, 2010 and in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on August 24, 2010. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Mosaic using the website information above. More detailed information regarding the identity of potential participants, and their direct or indirect interests, by securities holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the proxy statement/prospectus and other material to be filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibits furnished herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
This MERGER AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of January 18, 2011, is by and among The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (""), Cargill, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (""), GNS II (U.S.) Corp., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic that will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" promptly following the Merger Effective Time (as defined below) (""), GNS Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings (""), and, solely with respect to (and for the limited purposes set forth in) Sections 4.1(c), 4.1(d), 5.7, 7.2(e), 7.2(f), 7.3(b)-(d), 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 11.9, 11.13(d) and the last two sentences of Section 11.6, the MAC Trusts (as defined below).
Agreement
Mosaic
Cargill
M Holdings
Merger Sub
WHEREAS, as of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital stock of Mosaic consists of 715,000,000 shares, of which 700,000,000 shares are common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), and 15,000,000 shares are preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share ("," and together with the Mosaic Common Stock, the "");
Mosaic Common Stock
Mosaic Preferred Stock
Mosaic Stock
WHEREAS, as of the date of this Agreement, Mosaic directly owns one (1) share of M Holdings Common Stock (representing 100% of the outstanding shares of M Holdings Common Stock);
WHEREAS, as of the date of this Agreement, Cargill directly owns 11,631,933 shares of Mosaic Common Stock (representing approximately 2.6 percent of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock), GNS I (U.S.) Corp., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Cargill (""), directly owns 30,155,221 shares of Mosaic Common Stock (representing approximately 6.7 percent of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock), and Cargill Fertilizer, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct majority-owned (and an indirect wholly-owned) subsidiary of Cargill (""), directly owns 243,972,618 shares of Mosaic Common Stock (representing approximately 54.8 percent of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock);
GNS I
CFI
WHEREAS, Cargill intends, on or prior to the Closing Date (as defined below), to cause GNS I and CFI to convert to limited liability companies and transfer to Cargill all of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock directly owned by GNS I and CFI;
WHEREAS, the parties desire to engage in a series of transactions pursuant to which on the Closing Date (defined below):
a) the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings will be amended (such amendment, the "") to, among other things, (x) authorize the issuance of (A) four series of shares of new M Holdings Class A Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of M Holdings Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote, (B) three series of shares of new M Holdings Class B Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to ten (10) votes with respect to the election of directors and one (1) vote with respect to all other matters on which the holders of M Holdings Class B Common Stock are
M Holdings Charter Amendment
entitled to vote, and (C) shares of M Holdings Common Stock (as defined below), each share of which will be entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of M Holdings Common Stock are entitled to vote; and (y) reclassify all of the shares of capital stock of M Holdings then held by Mosaic into shares of M Holdings Common Stock to be held by Mosaic;
b) after the effective time of the M Holdings Charter Amendment, Merger Sub will merge with and into Mosaic (the "") (with Mosaic being the surviving corporation in such Merger) pursuant to which (i) Mosaic will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings; (ii) a portion of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of the different series of M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Class B Common Stock; and (iii) each of the other outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (including a portion of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill) will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of M Holdings Common Stock; and
Merger
c) as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time (as defined below), Cargill will consummate a split-off transaction (the "") pursuant to which Cargill will exchange all of the shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock to be received by it in the Merger (other than the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares (as defined below)) with stockholders of Cargill for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders of Cargill;
Split-off
WHEREAS, under the terms of an exchange agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and the MAC Trusts (as defined below) (as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock with the MAC Trusts for all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by the MAC Trusts;
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
WHEREAS, under the terms of one or more exchange agreements, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and certain Exchanging Cargill Stockholders (as defined below), other than the MAC Trusts, as such agreements may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock with the signatories of the Tender and Support Agreements for some or all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such Exchanging Cargill Stockholders, other than the MAC Trusts;
Tender and Support Agreements
WHEREAS, Cargill intends that, in connection with the Split-off, it will consummate the Initial Debt Exchange (as defined below), pursuant to which it will exchange with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders (as defined below), pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements (as defined below), a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, such Initial Debt Exchange to occur on the Closing Date as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time;
WHEREAS, it is intended that, on the Closing Date after the Split-off and the Initial Debt Exchange, M Holdings will consummate a public offering pursuant to the Registration
 
Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill, Mosaic, M Holdings, the MAC Trusts, and any other parties that become signatory thereto, as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), pursuant to which (i) the MAC Trusts will be entitled to offer and sell certain shares of M Holdings then held by the MAC Trusts, and (ii) Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders will be entitled to offer and sell certain Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares received by the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange; and
Registration Agreement
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Tax Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill, Mosaic and M Holdings, as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), the parties have set forth their understanding and intentions with respect to the United States federal income tax treatment of the Transactions (as defined below), and have provided representations and indemnities relating to the Transactions.
Tax Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.1 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
General
"" means the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Acorn Trust
"" shall mean any action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any court, any governmental or other regulatory or administrative agency, body or commission or any arbitration tribunal.
Action
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such specified Person; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, neither the Mosaic Parties and their respective Subsidiaries nor the MAC Trusts shall be considered to be "" of Cargill and its Subsidiaries, and neither Cargill and its Subsidiaries nor the MAC Trusts shall be considered to be "" of the Mosaic Parties and their respective Subsidiaries. As used in this definition, "" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided
however
Affiliates
Affiliates
control
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Agreement
"" shall mean any inquiry, proposal or offer from any Person relating to any (a) acquisition of twenty percent (20%) or more of the consolidated total assets of Mosaic and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (b) acquisition, tender or exchange offer, merger, consolidation, share exchange, business combination, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or similar transaction or any combination of the foregoing that would result in such Person beneficially owning twenty percent (20%) or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock, in each case, other than any of the Transactions.
Alternative Proposal
 
"" means the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Anne Ray Charitable Trust
"" and words of similar import (including "" and "") shall have the meaning attributed to them under Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act; that such determination shall be made without taking into account the 60-day limitation that would otherwise apply to such determination as provided for in Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i).
beneficial owner
beneficially own
beneficial ownership
provided
"" shall mean a written opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, dated the Closing Date, reaffirming the conclusions set forth in the Initial Tax Opinion.
Bring Down Tax Opinion
"" shall mean any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(a).
Capitalization Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Cargill
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of Article VI.
Cargill Disclosure Schedule
"" shall mean the Cargill, Incorporated Master Employee Stock Ownership Trust.
Cargill ESOP
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.
Cargill Indemnified Parties
"" shall mean any Event (or Events) that, individually (or in the aggregate) would be reasonably expected to materially and adversely affect Cargill's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Transaction Documents.
Cargill Material Adverse Effect
"" shall mean Cargill, Incorporated and Associated Companies Master Pension Trust.
Cargill Pension Fund
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.
Cargill Required Consents
"" shall mean that number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock as shall be determined by Cargill; , , that the number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares may not exceed (a) the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, less (b) 40% of the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number; and the number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares may not be less than 50 million.
Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10.
Cargill Waiver Notice
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Certificate of Merger
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals and shall also mean any corporation, limited liability company or partnership that is a successor to Cargill Fertilizer, Inc. by merger or conversion.
CFI
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g).
Change in the Mosaic Recommendation
"" shall mean a number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill that is equal to (w) the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, less (x) the number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock being sold by the MAC Trusts pursuant to the First Formation Offering, less (y) the number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares less (z) the number of Class B Conversion Shares.
Class A Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock that is equal to the minimum number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill immediately before the Merger Effective Time that must be converted into shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock in the Merger so that, immediately after the Merger Effective Time, the total shares of M Holdings Stock held by Cargill (excluding the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) represent at least 81% of the total voting power (for the election of directors of M Holdings) of the shares of M Holdings Stock outstanding immediately after the Merger Effective Time (treating the Reclassified Shares as voting shares for purposes of this calculation).
Class B Conversion Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
Closing
"" means any calendar date prior to the completion of the Closing Period upon which all of the Closing Period Conditions shall have been satisfied or waived, other than those Closing Period Conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied as of the Closing ( that all such Closing Period Conditions could be satisfied if the Closing were scheduled on such date or, if such date is not a Business Day, such Closing Period Conditions could be satisfied if the Closing were scheduled on the next succeeding Business Day). Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) in the event that Mosaic shall publicly announce any intention to restate any historical financial statements included in the Mosaic Recent Filings or in any of the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports filed or required to be filed with the SEC thereafter or that any such restatement is under consideration, no date shall constitute a Closing Condition Date until the first Business Day after the date upon which such restatement shall have been completed or Mosaic shall have publicly announced that it has concluded that no restatement is required, (ii) in the event that Mosaic shall have failed to file with the SEC when due any report that is required to be filed by Mosaic with the SEC under the Exchange Act, no date shall constitute a Closing Condition Date until the first Business Day after the date upon which such report shall have been filed with the SEC, (iii) in the event that Mosaic's independent registered public accounting firm shall have failed (other than during a Dead Period) to confirm (within three Business Days after a request for such confirmation from Cargill or any of the joint book running managing
Closing Condition Date
provided
 
underwriters of the First Formation Offering, which request shall be accompanied by a customary "circle-up" of items included, or incorporated by reference, in the Registration Statement for which comfort is requested) that such independent registered public accounting firm would then be prepared to issue to each underwriter in the First Formation Offering (if the First Formation Offering were to then be effected) a customary comfort letter in accordance with AU 634 (and applicable interpretations thereof), including, without limitation, customary negative assurances and covering customary change period matters, with respect to the historical financial information of Mosaic included, or incorporated by reference, in the Registration Statement, subject only to completion of customary procedures, no date shall constitute a Closing Condition Date until the first Business Day after the date upon which such independent registered public accounting firm (or another independent registered public accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Cargill) confirms that it would be prepared to then issue such comfort letter to each underwriter in the First Formation Offering (if the First Formation Offering were to then be effected), (iv) in the event that Mosaic's independent registered public accounting firms shall have withdrawn any audit opinion with respect to any audited financial statements included in the Mosaic Recent Filings Mosaic or in any of the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports filed or required to be filed with the SEC thereafter, no date shall constitute a Closing Condition Date until the first Business Day after a new unqualified audit opinion is issued with respect to the consolidated financial statements for the applicable periods by such independent registered public accounting firm or another independent registered public accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Cargill, or (v) in the event that there shall be any suspension of trading in the shares of Mosaic Common Stock on the NYSE for three consecutive Trading Days, no date shall constitute a Closing Condition Date until the first Business Day after such suspension is lifted.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
Closing Date
"" shall mean the first period of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days (as such number may be increased as provided herein) that are Closing Condition Dates; , , that (a) if the Closing Period includes a Dead Period, the number of consecutive calendar days of the Closing Period shall be increased by the number of calendar days included in such Dead Period, and (b) if Cargill delays the commencement of the Offer pursuant to Section 4.1(d) hereof and the Closing Period commences prior to the conclusion of the twentieth (20
Closing Period
provided
however
th
) Business Day after the commencement of the Offer, the Closing Period shall be increased by that number of calendar days that is equal to the lesser of (x) the number of calendar days of the Closing Period that elapse prior to the conclusion of the twentieth (20
th
) Business Day after the commencement of the Offer and (y) the number of calendar days that Cargill shall have delayed the commencement of the Offer pursuant to Section 4.1(d).
"" shall mean (i) all of the conditions to the parties' obligations to effect the Closing set forth in Section 9.1, (ii) the condition to the Mosaic Parties' obligation to effect the Closing set forth in Section 9.2(f) and (iii) all of the conditions to Cargill's obligation to effect the Closing set forth in Section 9.3.
Closing Period Conditions
"" means (a) if the Registration Statement contemplated by Section 2.1(a) of the Registration Agreement is filed on Form S-1, the period from May 20, 2011 through June 13, 2011 if fiscal 2011 compensation information reasonably intended to comply with the rules of the SEC is not included therein on or prior to June 13, 2011, or (b) if fiscal 2011
Compensation Dead Period
 
compensation information reasonably intended to comply with the rules of the SEC is included in such Registration Statement on or prior to June 13, 2011, the period from May 20, 2011 through the later of (x) the date the SEC elects not to issue comments relating to such compensation information and (y) the date (which may in no event be later than June 30, 2011) upon which any such comments issued by the SEC shall have been adequately resolved.
"" shall mean any note, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, pledge agreement, guarantee, loan agreement, permit, lease, license, franchise, concession, power of attorney, purchase order, or other agreement, contract, instrument, obligation, offer, commitment, arrangement or understanding, whether written or oral, in each case as amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified.
Contract
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b)(i).
Conversion Notice
"" means (a) the period beginning on and including April 1, 2011 through and including April 15, 2011; (b) any Compensation Dead Period and the five (5) consecutive Business Days thereafter; (c) the period beginning on and including July 1, 2011 through and including the later of July 15, 2011 and the fifth (5
Dead Period
th
) Business Day following the date on which Mosaic files with the SEC its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2011; and (d) the period beginning on and including August 20, 2011 through and including the fifth (5
th
) Business Day after September 5, 2011.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a).
Debt Exchanges
"" shall mean the agreements entered into between Cargill and an Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder for the exchange by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder of indebtedness of Cargill with Cargill for Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares.
Debt Exchange Agreements
"" shall mean the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
DGCL
"" shall mean the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware.
DLLCA
"" means August 18, 2011; that, if such date occurs on a Closing Condition Date and the Closing Period shall not have previously expired, the "" shall be the fifth (5
End Date
provided
End Date
th
) Business Day after the earlier of (x) the first Business Day after August 18, 2011 that is not a Closing Condition Date and (y) the expiration of the Closing Period.
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean those Persons who have exchanged or will exchange indebtedness of Cargill with Cargill for shares of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange.
Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Exchanging Cargill Stockholders
"" shall mean any event, change, development, effect, condition, circumstance, occurrence or state of facts.
Event
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
First Formation Offering
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" shall mean any exchange after the Closing Date by Cargill with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements, of a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders.
Follow-on Debt Exchange
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(b).
Form S-4
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Formation Offerings
"" shall mean U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time.
GAAP
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals and shall also mean any corporation, limited liability company or partnership that is a successor to GNS I (U.S.) Corp. by merger or conversion.
GNS I
"" shall mean that certain Governance Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, entered into by and among Mosaic, M Holdings, the MAC Trusts and the other Exchanging Cargill Stockholders from time to time party thereto, including any other Exchanging Cargill Stockholder who, to the knowledge of Cargill at the time of the Closing, is reasonably expected to be a Significant Stockholder immediately after the consummation of the Split-off.
Governance Agreement
"" shall mean any nation or government, any foreign or domestic federal, state, county, municipal or other political instrumentality or subdivision thereof and any foreign or domestic entity or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative, supervisory or taxing functions of or pertaining to government, including any court.
Governmental Authority
"" shall mean the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
HSR Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(a).
Indemnified Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(a).
Indemnifying Party
"" shall mean an exchange on the Closing Date by Cargill with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements, of a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders.
Initial Debt Exchange
 
"" shall mean the written tax opinion as to certain consequences of the Split-off rendered by Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP to Cargill as of the date of this Agreement.
Initial Tax Opinion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g).
Intervening Event
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" shall mean the request for rulings submitted by Cargill to the IRS, dated December 21, 2009, including the exhibits and supplements thereto and all other submissions, documents, materials or other information submitted to the IRS in connection with such request for rulings or any supplemental rulings related to the Transactions.
IRS Ruling Submission
"" means the actual knowledge of any of Messrs. Gregory R. Page, David W. MacLennan and Scott Naatjes and Ms. Linda Cutler.
knowledge of Cargill
"" means the actual knowledge of any of Messrs. James T. Prokopanko, Lawrence W. Stranghoener, Richard L. Mack and Todd Madden. It is agreed and acknowledged that each of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to have actual knowledge of all information contained in Schedules 13G and 13D, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC in respect of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
knowledge of Mosaic
"" shall mean all laws, Orders, statutes, codes, regulations, ordinances, decrees, rules, or other requirements with similar effect of any Governmental Authority.
Law
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(d).
Letter of Transmittal
"" means the Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Lilac Trust
"" shall mean all losses, costs, charges, expenses (including interest and penalties due and payable with respect thereto and reasonable attorneys' and other professional fees and expenses in connection with any Action whether involving a third-party claim or any claim solely between the parties hereto), obligations, liabilities, settlement payments, awards, judgments, fines, penalties, damages, demands, claims, assessments or deficiencies.
Losses
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
M Holdings
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
M Holdings Charter Amendment
"" shall mean collectively, the M Holdings Series A-1 Common Stock, the M Holdings Series A-2 Common Stock, the M Holdings Series A-3 Common Stock and the M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock.
M Holdings Class A Common Stock
"" shall mean collectively, the M Holdings Series B-1 Common Stock, the M Holdings Series B-2 Common Stock and the M Holdings Series B-3 Common Stock.
M Holdings Class B Common Stock
 
"" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class A Common Stock, Series A-1, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series A-1 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class A Common Stock, Series A-2, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series A-2 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class A Common Stock, Series A-3, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series A-3 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class A Common Stock, Series A-4, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class B Common Stock, Series B-1, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series B-1 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class B Common Stock, Series B-2, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series B-2 Common Stock
"" shall mean the Class B Common Stock, Series B-3, par value $0.01 per share, of M Holdings, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings, as it may be amended from time to time.
M Holdings Series B-3 Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(b).
M Holdings Equity Linked Securities
"" shall mean the M Holdings Common Stock, the M Holdings Class A Common Stock and the M Holdings Class B Common Stock.
M Holdings Stock
"" shall mean the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Acorn Trust, the Lilac Trust and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust.
MAC Trusts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
"" shall mean the Registration Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Mosaic, M Holdings and the MAC Trusts, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
MAC Trusts Registration Agreement
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10.
Market Event Notice
"" means (i) any material disruption in, or material adverse change to, U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or U.S. or international capital markets the effect of which is such as to make it impractical to proceed with an offering in the First Formation Offering in which the number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock offered for sale is equal to the minimum number of shares entitled to be sold by the MAC Trusts in the First Formation Offering pursuant to the Registration Agreement plus 30.75% of the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by CFI as of the date of this Agreement, (ii) any general suspension of trading in, or material limitations on prices for, securities generally on the NYSE for three or more consecutive Business Days; (iii) any banking moratorium declared by any United States, Minnesota or New York Governmental Authorities for three or more consecutive Business Days; (iv) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment or clearance services in the United States for three or more consecutive Business Days; (v) any attack on, outbreak or material escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international security event or similar crisis if the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, event or crisis is to cause a material disruption in, or material adverse change to, the United States capital markets for a period of three or more consecutive Business Days such that it is impractical to proceed with an offering in the First Formation Offering in which the number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock offered for sale is equal to the number of shares entitled to be sold by the MAC Trusts in the First Formation Offering pursuant to the Registration Agreement plus 30.75% of the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by CFI as of the date of this Agreement; (vi) any decline in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index by an amount in excess of twenty percent (20%) measured from the date of this Agreement; or (vii) any increase in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index by an amount in excess of twenty percent (20%) measured from the date of this Agreement.
Material Market Event
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Merger Effective Time
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Merger Sub
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Mosaic
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5.
Mosaic Awards
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(b).
Mosaic Book-Entry Shares
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(b).
Mosaic Certificates
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Mosaic Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of Article V.
Mosaic Disclosure Schedule
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(a).
Mosaic Equity Linked Securities
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3.
Mosaic Indemnified Parties
"" shall mean any Event (or Events) that, individually (or in the aggregate) (a) is (or are) or would be reasonably expected to be materially adverse to the financial condition, assets, liabilities, business or results of operations of Mosaic and its Subsidiaries, or, after the Closing, M Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; , , that a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect shall not be deemed to include Events relating to or resulting from: (A) changes generally affecting the economy, financial or securities markets or political or regulatory conditions, to the extent such changes do not, and would not be reasonably expected to, adversely affect Mosaic and its Subsidiaries or, after the Closing, M Holdings and its Subsidiaries in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the fertilizer industry; (B) changes in the fertilizer industry, to the extent such changes do not, and would not be reasonably expected to, adversely affect Mosaic and its Subsidiaries or, after the Closing, M Holdings and its Subsidiaries in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the fertilizer industry; (C) any change in Law or the interpretation thereof, to the extent such changes do not, and would not be reasonably expected to, adversely affect Mosaic and its Subsidiaries or, after the Closing, M Holdings and its Subsidiaries in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the fertilizer industry; (D) any change in GAAP or the interpretation thereof; (E) acts of war, armed hostility or terrorism, to the extent such changes do not adversely affect Mosaic and its Subsidiaries or, after the Closing, M Holdings and its Subsidiaries in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the fertilizer industry; (F) any failure by Mosaic to meet any internal or published industry analyst projections or forecasts or estimates of revenues or earnings for any period (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances giving rise to such failure that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of Mosaic Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect); and (G) any change resulting from the negotiation, execution or announcement of the Merger or other Transactions; or (b) would be reasonably expected to materially and adversely affect the Mosaic Parties' ability to consummate the Merger.
Mosaic Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5.
Mosaic Options
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a).
Mosaic Outstanding Share Number
"" shall mean Mosaic, M Holdings and Merger Sub.
Mosaic Parties
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.7.
Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5.
Mosaic Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Mosaic Preferred Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(c).
Mosaic Recommendation
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of Article V.
Mosaic Recent Filings
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4.
Mosaic Required Consents
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b).
Mosaic Shareholder Approval
"" shall mean the holders of Mosaic Common Stock.
Mosaic Shareholders
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(a).
Mosaic Shareholders Meeting
"" shall mean the special committee of independent directors of Mosaic established to consider and approve this Agreement and the Transactions and related matters, or any successor committee established by the Mosaic Board of Directors and designated for such purpose.
Mosaic Special Committee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Mosaic Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Tax Agreement.
Mosaic Tax Certificate
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(d).
Mosaic Transaction Documents
"" means the failure of Mosaic or the joint book-running underwriter selected by Mosaic for the First Formation Offering to agree, promptly (and in any event within five (5) Business Days) after a request therefor from Cargill, to a First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number equal to at least the minimum number of shares entitled to be sold by the MAC Trusts in the First Formation Offering pursuant to the Registration Agreement plus 30.75% of the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by CFI as of the date of this Agreement (and the joint book-running underwriter selected by Mosaic for the First Formation Offering is willing to enter into an underwriting agreement to underwrite the sale of at least 28,875,000 shares of M Holdings Common Stock to the public in the First Formation Offering) if Cargill has stated in such request that it and the joint book-running underwriter selected by Cargill for the First Formation Offering are willing at such time to agree to a First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number equal to at least the minimum number of shares entitled to be sold by the MAC Trusts in the First Formation Offering pursuant to the Registration Agreement plus 30.75% of the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by CFI as of the date of this Agreement (and the joint book-running underwriter selected by Cargill for the First Formation Offering is willing at such time to enter into an underwriting agreement to underwrite the sale of at least 28,875,000 shares of M Holdings Common Stock to the public in the First Formation Offering).
Mosaic Underwriting Failure
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10.
Mosaic Waiver Request
 
"" shall mean the Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between Cargill and M Holdings.
Non-Compete Agreement
"" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
"" shall mean any exchange offer by Cargill to all or some of the holders of the shares of capital stock of Cargill to effect the Split-off.
Offer
"" shall mean any offer documents, including form of transmittal letter, pursuant to which Cargill and/or one of its Subsidiaries makes any Offer (together with any supplements and amendments thereto).
Offer Documents
"" shall mean all judgments, orders, writs, injunctions, decisions, rulings, decrees and awards of any Governmental Authority.
Order
"" or "" shall mean each of the Mosaic Parties and Cargill.
Party
party
"" shall mean any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, governmental entity or agency or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
"" shall mean the private letter ruling issued by the IRS, dated November 15, 2010 and any supplemental rulings issued by the IRS pursuant to the IRS Ruling Submission.
Private Letter Ruling
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(b).
Proxy Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(d).
Public Merger Consideration
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(d).
Publicly Held Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(ii).
Reclassified Share Number
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(ii).
Reclassified Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Registrable Securities
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Registration Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Released Share Offering
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(b).
Representatives
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10.
Requisite Response Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.7.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" shall mean a number of Class A Conversion Shares equal to (x) the total number of Class A Conversion Shares less (y) the aggregate number of Series A-2 Conversion Shares, Series A-3 Conversion Shares and Series A-4 Conversion Shares.
Series A-1 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class A Conversion Shares equal to one-third of (x) the total number of Class A Conversion Shares less (y) the number of Series A-4 Conversion Shares, rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Series A-2 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class A Conversion Shares equal one-third of (x) the total number of Class A Conversion Shares less (y) the number of Series A-4 Conversion Shares, rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Series A-3 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class A Conversion Shares that is equal to 49,500,000 less the number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock being sold by the MAC Trusts on or about the Closing Date pursuant to the First Formation Offering.
Series A-4 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class B Conversion Shares equal to one-third of the total number of Class B Conversion Shares, rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Series B-1 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class B Conversion Shares equal one-third of the total number of Class B Conversion Shares, rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Series B-2 Conversion Shares
"" shall mean a number of Class B Conversion Shares equal one-third of the total number of Class B Conversion Shares, rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Series B-3 Conversion Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a).
Share Number Date
"" shall mean any stockholder or a group (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) of stockholders of Cargill who will beneficially own shares of M Holdings Stock representing five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding voting power of M Holdings for the election of directors immediately after giving effect to the Split-off; , that, for purposes of this definition, (a) if shares of M Holdings Stock are owned by a trust having three (3) or more trustees and voting and investment decisions are based on a simple majority vote of such trustees, then none of the trustees of such trust shall be deemed to beneficially own the shares held by such trust, and (b) any trusts with over-lapping trustees shall not be deemed to be considered part of a "group" solely as a result of the over-lapping trustees.
Significant Stockholder
provided
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Split-off
"" shall mean any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which another entity (i) owns, directly or indirectly, ownership interests sufficient to elect a majority of the board of directors (or persons performing similar functions) or (ii) is a general partner or an entity performing similar functions; , , that, unless the context otherwise requires, none of the Mosaic Parties nor any of their respective Subsidiaries shall be considered to be "" of Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Mosaic Parties and their respective Subsidiaries).
Subsidiary
provided
however
Subsidiaries
"" or "" shall mean taxes of any kind, levies or other like assessments, customs, duties, imposts, charges or fees, including income, gross receipts, ad valorem, value added, excise, real or personal property, asset, sales, use, license, payroll, transaction, capital, net worth and franchise taxes, withholding, employment, social security, workers compensation, utility, severance, production, unemployment compensation, occupation, premium, windfall profits, transfer and gains taxes or other governmental taxes imposed or payable to the United States, or any state, county, local or foreign government or subdivision or agency thereof, and in each instance such term shall include any interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts attributable to any such tax.
Tax
Taxes
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Tax Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Tender and Support Agreements
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2(b)(ii).
Termination Fee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(b).
Third-Party Claim
"" means a day on which the Mosaic Common Stock (x) has traded at least one share on the NYSE and (y) is not suspended from trading on the NYSE.
Trading Day
"" shall mean this Agreement, the Registration Agreement, the MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement, the MAC Trusts Registration Agreement, the Governance Agreement, the Non-Compete Agreement, the Tax Agreement and the Tender and Support Agreements.
Transaction Documents
"" shall mean the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, including the Merger, the Offer, the Split-off, the Debt Exchanges, the Formation Offerings, the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering and the Released Share Offerings.
Transactions
"" means (with its cognates having corresponding meanings), with respect to any Mosaic, M Holdings or Cargill securities (""), (i) any direct or indirect sale, exchange, issuance, transfer, redemption, grant, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, and whether or not for value, of any of the applicable securities, or any securities, options, warrants or rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or for the purchase or other acquisition of, any applicable securities or any contract or other binding arrangement or understanding (in each case, whether written or oral) to take any of the foregoing actions or (ii) entering into any swap or other
Transfer
applicable securities
 
agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, that, directly or indirectly, transfers, conveys or otherwise disposes of, in whole or in part, any of the economic or other risks or consequences of ownership of any applicable securities, including short sales of applicable securities, offsetting notional principal contracts with respect to applicable securities, forward contracts to sell with respect to applicable securities, option transactions with respect to applicable securities, use of equity or other derivative financial instruments relating to applicable securities and other hedging arrangements with respect to applicable securities, whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of the applicable securities, other securities, cash or otherwise; , , that (a) a grant of a proxy in connection with a solicitation of proxies as provided for in the Governance Agreement or subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Exchange Act shall not constitute a "Transfer" and (b) the conversion of any shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock or M Holdings Class A Common Stock and the conversion of any shares of M Holdings Class A Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings shall not constitute a "Transfer".
provided
however
"" shall mean a material Event that occurs after the date of this Agreement in respect of which, in the opinion of counsel to Mosaic, disclosure would need to be included in the Offer Documents in order for the Offer Documents not to include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading but in respect of which the Mosaic Parties do not yet have sufficient facts regarding such Event or the potential impact of such Event on the Company to make such disclosure.
Undetermined Event
"" shall mean a period ending upon the earlier of (i) the twentieth (20
Undetermined Event Period
th
) calendar day after the Mosaic Parties become aware of the occurrence of the Undetermined Event and (ii) the second Business Day after the Mosaic Parties make disclosure regarding the applicable Undetermined Event (or otherwise notify Cargill that no additional disclosure is necessary) so that the Offer Documents do not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
SECTION 1.2 .
References; Interpretation
(a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, a Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference shall be to an Article or a Section of, or an Exhibit or Mosaic Disclosure Schedule or Cargill Disclosure Schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "," "" or "" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Unless otherwise specified, the words "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole (including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto), and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. References to "" or "" in this Agreement refer to Mosaic, Cargill, M Holdings and Merger Sub. All
include
includes
including
hereof
herein
hereunder
parties
parties hereto
 
terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, any noun or pronoun shall be deemed to cover all genders. All references in this Agreement to the number of shares of any securities shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or similar change in such securities which may be made by the issuer thereof after the date of this Agreement. Any statute, rule, order or regulation defined or referred to in this Agreement or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to in this Agreement shall mean such statute, rule, order or regulation as from time to time amended, updated, modified, supplemented or superseded, including by succession of comparable successor statutes, rules, orders or regulations and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, to the extent that such amendment, update, modification, supplement or superseding statute, rule, order or regulation is applicable to the Transactions. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.
(b) The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as jointly drafted by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.1 . Unless this Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with Article X, the closing of the Merger (the "") shall occur on such date (the "") after the satisfaction or (subject to any applicable restrictions) waiver of all of the conditions to the Closing set forth in Article IX (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or (subject to any applicable restrictions) waiver of those conditions) as shall be determined by Cargill in its sole discretion by delivery of written notice to Mosaic, such notice to specify the date selected for the Closing and to be delivered at least five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date (it being agreed and understood that, notwithstanding the delivery of any such notice by Cargill, Cargill may, prior to the Closing, delay the Closing Date by delivery of a further written notice to Mosaic, and each of Cargill and Mosaic retain any right it may have to terminate this Agreement prior to the Closing pursuant to Section 10.1). The Closing shall be held at 9:00 a.m. New York City time on the Closing Date at the offices of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP or at such other time on the Closing Date and place as shall be agreed by Cargill and Mosaic.
The Closing
Closing
Closing Date
SECTION 2.2 .
Certain Deliveries
 
(i) Four (4) Business Days prior to the Closing, Mosaic shall furnish Cargill with a certificate, dated as of such date, signed on its behalf by its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
 
Financial Officer or General Counsel, certifying, as of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the date of such certificate (such Business Day, the ""), (A) the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock issued and outstanding on the Share Number Date, (B) that, other than the Mosaic Common Stock set forth in clause (A), there are no shares of capital stock of Mosaic outstanding as of the Share Number Date, and (C) without limiting the restrictions set forth in Section 7.1(a)(iii), the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock that Mosaic is expected to be required to issue on or after the Share Number Date and through the Closing Date under the terms of any Mosaic Awards (other than Mosaic Options). Prior to Closing, Mosaic shall promptly notify Cargill of any shares of Mosaic Common Stock issued by Mosaic following the Share Number Date and immediately prior to the Closing (the aggregate number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock set forth in clause (A) of the preceding sentence plus any shares of Mosaic Common Stock set forth in a notice pursuant to this sentence, the "").
Share Number Date
Mosaic Outstanding Share Number
(ii) Four (4) Business Days prior to the Closing, (A) the value of M Holdings, and (B) the number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock (the "") that Mosaic will own upon the reclassification of the capital stock of M Holdings pursuant to the amendment and restatement of the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings in accordance with Section 3.2(c) (such number of shares, the "") shall be determined by Mosaic and Cargill in accordance with Section 7.13.
Reclassified Shares
Reclassified Share Number
 
(i) After the Share Number Date and prior to the Closing, Cargill shall deliver to Mosaic a notice (the "") setting forth Cargill's calculation and determination of (x) the number of Class A Conversion Shares (and the number of Series A-1 Conversion Shares, Series A-2 Conversion Shares, Series A-3 Conversion Shares and Series A-4 Conversion Shares), (y) the number of Class B Conversion Shares (and the number of Series B-1 Conversion Shares, Series B-2 Conversion Shares and Series B-3 Conversion Shares), and (z) the number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares, each of which shall be calculated based on the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number, the Reclassified Share Number and the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock then owned by Cargill. The determination of Cargill as to the number of Class A Conversion Shares (and the number of Series A-1 Conversion Shares, Series A-2 Conversion Shares, Series A-3 Conversion Shares and Series A-4 Conversion Shares), the number of Class B Conversion Shares (and the number of Series B-1 Conversion Shares, Series B-2 Conversion Shares and Series B-3 Conversion Shares), and the number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares, as set forth in such Conversion Notice, shall be binding on the parties, absent manifest error.
Conversion Notice
(ii) At least two Business Days prior to the Closing, Cargill shall deliver to Mosaic a notice setting forth the names of each Person that, to the knowledge of Cargill, is reasonably expected to be a Significant Stockholder.
(iii) At the Closing, Cargill shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, with Mosaic, certificates representing all of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock then owned by Cargill and its Subsidiaries. Such shares of Mosaic Common Stock, when converted pursuant to Article III at the Merger Effective Time, shall be cancelled.
 
SECTION 3.1 .
The Merger
(a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA at the Merger Effective Time, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into Mosaic. As a result of the Merger, the separate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and Mosaic shall continue as the surviving corporation of the Merger and shall become a wholly-owned Subsidiary of M Holdings.
(b) At the Closing, Mosaic shall file a certificate of merger with respect to the Merger (the "") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and make all other filings or recordings required by the DGCL and the DLLCA in connection with the Merger. The Merger shall become effective at such time as the Certificate of Merger is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or at such later time on the Closing date as shall be specified in the Certificate of Merger with the prior written approval of Cargill and Mosaic (the time and date that the Merger is effective being the "").
Certificate of Merger
Merger Effective Time
(c) The Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and in Section 259 of the DGCL and Section 18-209(g) of the DLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, from and after the Merger Effective Time, all property, rights, privileges, immunities, powers, franchises, licenses and authority of Merger Sub and Mosaic shall continue to be vested or vest, as applicable, in Mosaic, and all debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions and duties of each of Merger Sub and Mosaic shall continue to be or become, as applicable, the debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions and duties of Mosaic.
SECTION 3.2 .
Organizational Documents; Directors and Officers
(a) At the Merger Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger, the certificate of incorporation of Mosaic shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as set forth in and, as so amended and restated, shall continue to be the certificate of incorporation of Mosaic until amended in accordance with the terms of such certificate of incorporation and applicable Law.
Exhibit A
(b) The directors and officers of Mosaic immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time shall be the directors and officers of Mosaic as of the Merger Effective Time and following the Merger Effective Time, each to continue to hold office in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Mosaic and applicable Law.
(c) Prior to the Closing, Mosaic and M Holdings shall take such action as is necessary to ensure that the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings shall be amended and restated effective immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time to read substantially in the form set forth in (pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Old Common Stock (as defined therein) held by Mosaic will be reclassified into a number of Reclassified Shares equal to the Reclassified Share Number). Prior to the Closing, Mosaic and M Holdings shall take such action as is necessary to ensure, as of the Merger Effective Time, that (i) the bylaws of M
Exhibit B
 
Holdings at and immediately after the Merger Effective Time shall contain provisions identical to the bylaws of Mosaic immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time (with such changes as may be agreed to by the parties hereto); and (ii) the directors of Mosaic immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time shall be the directors of M Holdings at and immediately after the Merger Effective Time. Prior to the Closing, Mosaic and M Holdings shall take such action as is necessary to approve the amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in this Section 3.2(c) and in Section 3.2(d).
(d) At or immediately following the Merger Effective Time, M Holdings shall file an amended and restated certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware for the purpose of changing the name of M Holdings to "The Mosaic Company"; such amended and restated certificate of incorporation shall be identical in all other respects to the certificate of incorporation set forth on (other than Section 1.(C) of Article IV thereof, which shall be omitted); and such amended and restated certificate of incorporation shall have been approved by the Board of Directors of M Holdings and adopted by Mosaic as the sole stockholder of M Holdings prior to the Merger Effective Time.
Exhibit B
SECTION 3.3 .
Conversion of Capital Stock
(a) At the Merger Effective Time, automatically and without necessity of any action on the part of Mosaic, Merger Sub or their respective equity holders:
(i) each of the Series A-1 Conversion Shares, Series A-2 Conversion Shares, Series A-3 Conversion Shares and Series A-4 Conversion Shares shall be converted into the right to receive one share of M Holdings Series A-1 Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-2 Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-3 Common Stock and M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock, respectively;
(ii) each of the Series B-1 Conversion Shares, Series B-2 Conversion Shares and Series B-3 Conversion Shares shall be converted into the right to receive one share of M Holdings Series B-1 Common Stock, M Holdings Series B-2 Common Stock and M Holdings Series B-3 Common Stock, respectively;
(iii) each share of Mosaic Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time (other than the Series A-1 Conversion Shares, Series A-2 Conversion Shares, Series A-3 Conversion Shares, Series A-4 Conversion Shares and the Series B-1 Conversion Shares, Series B-2 Conversion Shares and Series B-3 Conversion Shares) shall be converted into the right to receive one share of M Holdings Common Stock, and each share of Mosaic Common Stock that immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time was held in the treasury of Mosaic, if any, shall remain in the treasury of Mosaic; and
(iv) all of the limited liability company interests in Merger Sub shall be converted into one hundred (100) shares of Mosaic Common Stock (representing 100% of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of Mosaic).
(b) As of the Merger Effective Time, all of the shares of Mosaic Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, upon the cancellation or conversion thereof in accordance with Section 3.3(a), shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be
 
cancelled and cease to exist and each certificate (or evidence of uncertificated book-entry shares) previously representing any such shares shall thereafter represent only the right to receive the consideration set forth in clause (a) of this Section 3.3 in respect of such shares upon the delivery of the certificate representing such shares (""), or, in the case of uncertificated book-entry shares of Mosaic Stock (""), an "agent's message" (or such other evidence, if any, of transfer as M Holdings may reasonably require), to M Holdings in accordance with Section 3.4 (or in the case of a lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, upon delivery of an affidavit and agreement to indemnify (and bond, if required) in the manner provided in Section 3.4).
Mosaic Certificates
Mosaic Book-Entry Shares
SECTION 3.4 .
Exchange of Certificates
(a) Immediately after the Merger Effective Time (and subject to the Mosaic Certificates representing the shares of Mosaic Common Stock owned by Cargill and its Subsidiaries having been deposited with Mosaic in accordance with Section 2.2(b)), M Holdings shall issue and deliver, or shall cause to be issued and delivered, to Cargill, share certificates registered in the name of Cargill (in such denominations as shall be requested by Cargill) representing the shares of M Holdings Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-1 Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-2 Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-3 Common Stock, M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock, M Holdings Series B-1 Common Stock, M Holdings Series B-2 Common Stock and M Holdings Series B-3 Common Stock issued to Cargill in the Merger.
(b) Upon delivery by Cargill to M Holdings of Mosaic Certificates representing any Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares in proper form for transfer, M Holdings shall immediately reissue and deliver, or cause to be reissued and delivered, such Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares, in certificated or book entry form, without any legends (except, in the case of any such shares issued in certificated form, as required by Section 151(f) of the DGCL), in such denominations, to such Person or Persons and registered in such name or names and otherwise as shall be reasonably requested by Cargill.
(c) After receiving the share certificates of M Holdings Stock referred to in Section 3.4(a), Cargill shall deliver, in proper form for transfer, such share certificates to M Holdings (other than share certificates representing any Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) and M Holdings shall reissue and deliver, or cause to be reissued and delivered, to Cargill, new certificates representing, or other evidence of ownership of, such shares in accordance with Sections 4.1(e) and (f).
(d) Promptly after the Merger Effective Time, M Holdings shall send to each holder of record of shares of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill) (such shares, the "") immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time whose shares were converted into the right to receive the consideration set forth in Section 3.3(a)(iii) (the ""), (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to Mosaic Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Mosaic Certificates to M Holdings and shall be in such form and have such other provisions (including customary provisions with respect to delivery of an "agent's message" with respect to Mosaic Book-Entry Shares) as M Holdings may reasonably require) (the "") and (ii) instructions to effect the surrender of the Publicly Held Shares in exchange for the Public Merger Consideration.
Publicly Held Shares
Public Merger Consideration
Letter of Transmittal
 
(e) Upon (i) the surrender of any Mosaic Certificate to M Holdings for cancellation, or (ii) in the case of Mosaic Book-Entry Shares, the receipt of an "agent's message" by M Holdings (or such other evidence, if any, of transfer as M Holdings may reasonably require), in each case together with the Letter of Transmittal, duly, completely, and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by M Holdings, the holder of such shares shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor (A) the Public Merger Consideration into which such shares of Mosaic Stock have been converted pursuant to Section 3.3(a)(iii) and (B) any cash in respect of any dividends or other distributions which the holder of such shares has the right to receive pursuant to Section 3.4(i).
(f) In the event that a transfer of ownership of Publicly Held Shares is not registered in the stock transfer books or ledger of Mosaic, or if any certificate (or uncertificated book-entry shares) for the Public Merger Consideration is to be issued in a name other than that in which the Mosaic Certificate representing such Publicly Held Shares (or the Mosaic Book-Entry Shares) surrendered in exchange therefor is registered, it shall be a condition to the issuance thereof that the certificate or certificates so surrendered shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer (or, if such Publicly Held Shares are Mosaic Book-Entry Shares, other proper evidence of transfer is presented) and that the Person requesting such exchange shall have paid to M Holdings any transfer or other Taxes required as a result of the issuance of a certificate representing shares of M Holdings Stock (or uncertificated book-entry shares of M Holdings Stock) in any name other than that of the registered holder of such Publicly Held Shares, or establish to the satisfaction of M Holdings that such Tax has been paid or is not payable.
(g) None of the Mosaic Parties or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates shall be liable to any holder of Publicly Held Shares for any Public Merger Consideration delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law.
(h) In the event any certificates representing Publicly Held Shares shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, M Holdings shall issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed certificates, upon the making of a lost certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to M Holdings to indemnify M Holdings and the transfer agent (if M Holdings does not serve as its own transfer agent) (and if requested by M Holdings or the transfer agent (if applicable), the posting of a surety bond in customary amount and upon customary terms) against any claim that may be made against M Holdings and/or the transfer agent on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate, by the holder thereof, the applicable Public Merger Consideration in accordance with Section 3.3(a).
(i) No dividends or other distributions declared or made with respect to M Holdings Stock with a record date before the Merger Effective Time that has not been paid prior to the Merger Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Mosaic Certificate (or Mosaic Book-Entry Shares) with respect to the shares of M Holdings Stock issuable upon surrender thereof, until the surrender of such Mosaic Certificate (or Mosaic Book-Entry Shares) in accordance with this Article III. Subject to escheat, tax, or other applicable Law, following
 
surrender of any such Mosaic Certificate (or Mosaic Book-Entry Shares), there shall be paid to the holder of the certificate representing whole shares of M Holdings Stock (or whole uncertificated book-entry shares of M Holdings Stock) issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (i) at the time of such surrender, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date before the Merger Effective Time and paid with respect to such whole shares of M Holdings Stock prior to such surrender and (ii) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date before the Merger Effective Time but prior to such surrender and a payment date subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such whole shares of M Holdings Stock.
(j) The shares of M Holdings Stock issued in accordance with the terms of this Article III upon conversion of any shares of Mosaic Stock shall be deemed to have been issued and paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such shares of Mosaic Stock. If, after the Merger Effective Time, any Mosaic Certificates (or Mosaic Book-Entry Shares) which formerly represented shares of Mosaic Stock, are presented to M Holdings for any reason, they shall be cancelled and exchanged as provided in this Article III.
SECTION 3.5 All outstanding unexercised and unexpired options to purchase shares of Mosaic Common Stock ("") or outstanding restricted stock units with respect to Mosaic Common Stock and other equity awards with respect to Mosaic Common Stock (collectively with Mosaic Options, "") outstanding under The Mosaic Company 2004 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended, the IMC Global Inc. 1998 Stock Option and Award Plan, as amended, and the IMC Global Inc. 1998 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended (collectively, the ""), whether or not exercisable or vested, at the Merger Effective Time will be assumed by M Holdings. Mosaic and M Holdings agree that each Mosaic Award so assumed by M Holdings under this Agreement will continue to have, and be subject to, the same terms and conditions as set forth in the applicable Mosaic Plan and any agreements thereunder immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time (including the vesting schedule (without acceleration thereof by virtue of the Merger and the other Transactions) and per share exercise prices), except that each Mosaic Award will be exercisable (or will become exercisable in accordance with its terms) for, or shall be denominated with reference to, that number of shares of M Holdings Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock that were subject to such Mosaic Award immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time. Effective as of the Merger Effective Time, Mosaic hereby assigns to M Holdings, and M Holdings hereby assumes and agrees to perform, all obligations of Mosaic pursuant to the Mosaic Plans and each stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement and/or restricted stock unit agreement entered into pursuant to the Mosaic Plans, and each outstanding Mosaic Award granted thereunder.
Mosaic Equity Awards
.
Mosaic Options
Mosaic Awards
Mosaic Plans
SECTION 3.6 . As of the close of business on the day on which the Merger Effective Time occurs, the stock transfer books of Mosaic shall be closed and there shall be no further registration of transfers on Mosaic's stock transfer books of shares of Mosaic Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time.
Closing of Mosaic Transfer Books
 
SECTION 4.1 .
The Split-off
(a) On the Closing Date, as promptly as practicable following the Merger Effective Time, Cargill shall consummate the Split-off by exchanging with stockholders of Cargill (the ""), for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders, all of the shares of M Holdings Class A Common Stock, M Holdings Class B Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock (excluding the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) received by Cargill in the Merger. Cargill shall use its reasonable best efforts to commence the Offer, and to disseminate to its stockholders all applicable Offer Documents, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date upon which Mosaic first mails the Proxy Statement to the Mosaic Shareholders. Subject to the foregoing, Cargill may, in its sole and absolute discretion, determine the terms and conditions of the Split-off, including the form, structure and terms and conditions of any transaction(s) and any Offer pursuant to which Cargill may effect the Split-off; , , that (w) Cargill may not exchange M Holdings Stock with any stockholder of Cargill as part of the Split-off unless such stockholder shall have made and agreed to (for the benefit of Mosaic, M Holdings and Cargill) representations regarding such stockholder's sophistication and qualification as an accredited investor and covenants substantially on the terms set forth on hereto, (x) Cargill may not exchange M Holdings Stock with any stockholder of Cargill who, to the knowledge of Cargill at the time of the Closing, is reasonably expected to be a Significant Stockholder immediately following the Split-off unless such Significant Stockholder shall have entered into the Governance Agreement, (y) any Offer made by Cargill to effect the Split-off shall comply in all material respects with Regulation 14E under the Exchange Act, to the extent applicable (it being understood that Cargill shall not be deemed to have failed to comply with its obligations under this clause (y) to the extent that its failure to comply with Regulation 14E under the Exchange Act shall have resulted from a breach by the Mosaic Parties of their obligations under Section 4.1(c)), and (z) the terms and conditions of the Split-off shall in all material respects be consistent with the terms and conditions of the Split-off set forth in the Private Letter Ruling, the IRS Ruling Submission, the Initial Tax Opinion and the Bring Down Tax Opinion. It is agreed and acknowledged that Cargill may, pursuant to the terms of the Offer, provide that all or a portion of the shares of M Holdings Class A Common Stock or M Holdings Class B Common Stock to be transferred to any or all of the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders pursuant to the Split-off may be placed in escrow for the benefit of the such stockholders on terms set forth in the Offer Documents, except that shares to be transferred to the MAC Trusts may be placed in escrow only to the extent as directed by Cargill in accordance with the terms of the MAC Exchange Agreement.
Exchanging Cargill Stockholders
provided
however
Exhibit C
(b) To the extent reasonably requested by Cargill, the Mosaic Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to assist Cargill in connection with the Split-off, including using reasonable best efforts to assist Cargill in connection with the preparation by Cargill of the Offer Documents and making all filings with, and obtaining all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority reasonably requested by Cargill in order to consummate the Split-off. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Mosaic Parties shall, to the extent reasonably requested by Cargill, (x) promptly provide to Cargill all information concerning the Mosaic Parties that is required or reasonably requested by Cargill in connection with the Split-off and the preparation of the Offer Documents and (y) make officers and employees of Mosaic reasonably available to participate in meetings, presentations and sessions with Cargill stockholders and to answer questions from, and provide information to, stockholders of Cargill
 
concerning Mosaic and M Holdings; that, except for information provided pursuant to Section 4.1(c), no material, non-public information shall be provided by the Mosaic Parties to any stockholder of Cargill unless, in the good faith judgment of Cargill, the provision of such information is necessary or advisable in connection with the Offer and such stockholder agrees, in a manner reasonably acceptable to Mosaic, to keep such information confidential.
provided
(c) The Mosaic Parties and the MAC Trusts and their respective counsel shall be given a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the Offer Documents sufficiently in advance of any such document being disseminated to stockholders of Cargill, and Cargill shall give reasonable and good-faith consideration to any comments made by the Mosaic Parties, the MAC Trusts and their respective counsel. Cargill shall ensure that the Offer Documents do not contain, and that it does not otherwise make to any stockholder of Cargill in connection with the Split-off, any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that no covenant, agreement, representation or warranty is made by Cargill with respect to statements or omissions based on information supplied in writing by, or on behalf of, any of the Mosaic Parties for inclusion in the Offer Documents, including information incorporated into the Offer Documents by reference to the documents filed by Mosaic or M Holdings with the SEC or (with the prior consent of Mosaic) furnished with the SEC. The Mosaic Parties shall ensure that the information supplied by them for inclusion in the Offer Documents does not contain (and the information incorporated into any of the Offer Documents by reference to the documents filed or (with the prior consent of Mosaic) furnished by Mosaic or M Holdings with the SEC does not contain), and that any statements otherwise made by any Mosaic Party to any stockholder of Cargill in connection with the Split-off do not contain, any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Each party agrees promptly to correct any information provided by it for use in any of the Offer Documents (or, in the case of Mosaic or M Holdings, information incorporated into any of the Offer Documents by reference to the documents filed or (with the prior consent of Mosaic) furnished by Mosaic or M Holdings with the SEC) if and to the extent that any such information or statement shall have become false or misleading in any material respect, and Cargill agrees to take all steps necessary to cause the Offer Documents as so corrected to be timely disseminated to the stockholders of Cargill to which the Offer is being made to the extent required by applicable Law.
(d) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.1 to the contrary, in the event that an Undetermined Event occurs, upon written notice delivered by Mosaic to Cargill and the MAC Trusts prior to the commencement of the Offer (and describing in reasonable detail the facts known to Mosaic regarding the Undetermined Event) requesting that Cargill delay the commencement of the Offer, Cargill shall delay the Offer until the completion of the Undetermined Event Period. In the event that an Undetermined Event occurs, Mosaic shall keep Cargill and the MAC Trusts reasonably informed during the Undetermined Event Period of the facts that become known to Mosaic regarding such Undetermined Event and, prior to the conclusion of the Undetermined Event Period, Mosaic shall provide Cargill and the MAC Trusts with information regarding such Undetermined Event as is necessary so that upon the disclosure of the information regarding such Undetermined Event in the Offer Documents, such Offer Documents would not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any
 
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Mosaic shall be entitled to cause Cargill to delay the Offer pursuant to this Section 4.1(d) on no more than one occasion.
(e) The Mosaic Parties shall cooperate with Cargill in connection with the delivery of certificates representing, or other evidence of ownership of, the shares of M Holdings Stock being transferred to the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, subject to Section 4.1(f), M Holdings shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Cargill new certificates representing the shares of M Holdings Stock being transferred to such Exchanging Cargill Stockholders. Such certificates that represent shares of M Holdings Stock being delivered to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off shall be delivered by M Holdings to Cargill immediately upon request following the Merger and all other certificates shall be delivered by M Holdings to Cargill as promptly as practicable thereafter. Such certificates shall be issued in such denominations and registered in such name or names as specified in writing by Cargill and, except as provided in Section 4.1(f), shall contain the following (or a substantially similar) legends:
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY ARE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS ON SALE, TRANSFER, GRANT, PLEDGE, HYPOTHECATION OR OTHER DISPOSITION (ANY SUCH ACTION, A "") SET FORTH IN THE AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF THE CORPORATION AND PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE HOLDER OF SUCH SECURITIES AND THE CORPORATION AND/OR CARGILL, INCORPORATED, A COPY OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE CORPORATION OR CARGILL, INCORPORATED, RESPECTIVELY. ANY PURPORTED TRANSFER OR ATTEMPT TO TRANSFER THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY OTHER THAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THE RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND SUCH AGREEMENTS SHALL BE NULL AND VOID AND OF NO EFFECT.
TRANSFER
THE CORPORATION IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE MORE THAN ONE CLASS OF STOCK, INCLUDING A CLASS OF PREFERRED STOCK THAT MAY BE ISSUED IN ONE OR MORE SERIES. THE CORPORATION WILL FURNISH TO ANY STOCKHOLDER, UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE CORPORATE SECRETARY, AND WITHOUT CHARGE, A FULL STATEMENT OF THE POWERS, DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES, AND RELATIVE, PARTICIPATING, OPTIONAL OR OTHER SPECIAL RIGHTS OF THE SHARES OF EACH CLASS OF STOCK OR SERIES THEREOF AND THE QUALIFICATIONS, LIMITATIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS OF SUCH PREFERENCES AND/OR RIGHTS.
 
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in Section 4.1(e), (i) shares of M Holdings Common Stock being transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts in the Split-off and to be sold by the MAC Trusts on or about the Closing Date in the First Formation Offering shall be issued and delivered by M Holdings in certificated or book entry form, without any legends (except, in the case of any such shares issued in certificated form, as required by Section 151(f) of the DGCL), in such denominations, to such Persons or Persons and registered in such name or names and otherwise as shall be reasonably requested by the managing underwriters for the First Formation Offering in order to facilitate such offering and (ii) M Holdings shall remove all legends (except, in the case of any such shares issued in certificated form, as required by Section 151(f) of the DGCL) from shares of M Holdings Stock being Transferred in any Formation Offering, S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, Private Sale (as defined in the Registration Agreement), Market Sale (as defined in the Registration Agreement) or Permitted MAC Trust Redemption (as defined in the Registration Agreement).
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no fractional shares of M Holdings Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock or M Holdings Class B Common Stock shall be assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered to any Exchanging Cargill Stockholder pursuant to the Split-off. In lieu of any such fractional share, Cargill shall pay to each Exchanging Cargill Stockholder that otherwise would be entitled to receive such fractional share an amount in cash determined pursuant to the terms of the Offer.
(h) From and after the consummation of the Split-off, M Holdings shall regard the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders as the record holders of M Holdings Stock (for purposes of rights to dividends, voting rights and otherwise), subject to any transfers of such shares, without requiring any action on the part of such Persons.
(i) At any time from and after the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date, any Exchanging Cargill Stockholder or MAC Trust may request replacement certificates omitting the legend contained in the third paragraph of Section 4.1(e) hereto, provided that such request is accompanied by a certification that (1) such requesting Exchanging Cargill Stockholder or MAC Trust has held the M Holdings Stock represented by such certificates for a period of at least six (6) months, as determined in accordance with Rule 144(d)(3) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision) and (2) as of such date such requesting Exchanging Cargill Stockholder or MAC Trust is not an "affiliate" of M Holdings as such term is used by Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
 
SECTION 4.2 .
Debt Exchanges
(a) Cargill shall consummate, on the Closing Date, as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time, the Initial Debt Exchange. After the Closing Date, Cargill may also consummate one or more Follow-on Debt Exchanges (together with the Initial Debt Exchange, the ""). Subject to Section 4.2(c), Cargill may, in its sole and absolute discretion, determine the terms and conditions, and the structure, of the Initial Debt Exchange and the terms and conditions, and the structure of any Follow-on Debt Exchanges; , , that the terms and conditions, and the structure, of the Initial Debt Exchange and any Follow-on Debt Exchange shall be (x) in all material respects consistent with the terms and conditions, and the structure, of the Debt Exchanges described in any of the Private Letter Ruling, the IRS Ruling Submission, the Initial Tax Opinion or the Bring Down Tax Opinion, (y) conducted in a manner that is not required to be registered under the Securities Act and (z) to the extent applicable, in accordance with the terms of the Registration Agreement.
Debt Exchanges
provided
however
(b) Subject to Section 4.2(c), (i) to the extent reasonably requested by Cargill, the Mosaic Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to assist Cargill in connection with the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange, including using reasonable best efforts to assist Cargill in making all filings with, and obtaining all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority reasonably requested by Cargill in order to consummate the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange, and (ii) M Holdings shall take such other actions as shall otherwise be reasonably requested by Cargill to facilitate the delivery to the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares being transferred by Cargill to the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders on the Closing Date pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange and/or after the Closing Date pursuant to any Follow-on Debt Exchange, including to the extent reasonably requested by Cargill (A) making officers and employees of Mosaic and M Holdings reasonably available to participate in meetings, presentations and sessions with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders or potential Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and to answer questions from, and provide information to, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders or potential Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders concerning Mosaic and M Holdings (provided that no Mosaic Party shall have any obligation pursuant to this clause (A) to provide any material, non-public information to any Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder or potential Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder unless in the good faith judgment of Cargill the provision of such information is necessary or advisable to facilitate the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange and such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder or potential Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder agrees, in a manner reasonably acceptable to Mosaic, to keep such information confidential) and (B) executing and delivering Debt Exchange Agreements in a form reasonably acceptable to Mosaic and Cargill.
(c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Cargill shall consult in advance with the Mosaic Parties regarding the terms, structure and legal documents relating to any such Debt Exchange and obtain the consent of Mosaic to any documentation relating to any such Debt Exchange to which any Mosaic Party (or any of their Subsidiaries) is a party and/or pursuant to which such Mosaic Party has any potential liability or obligation (other than any liability or obligation), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
de minimis
 
Except as set forth (a) in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2010 filed by Mosaic with the SEC on July 23, 2010, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2010 filed by Mosaic with the SEC on October 12, 2010 and Amendment No. 1 thereto filed on October 29, 2010, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2010 filed by Mosaic with the SEC on January 6, 2011 and the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Mosaic with the SEC after May 31, 2010 and prior to the date of this Agreement (collectively, the "") (other than any forward-looking statements in the Risk Factors sections and other forward-looking statements set forth in such Mosaic Recent Filings) ( that this clause (a) shall apply only to the extent that the nature and content of the disclosure in the Mosaic Recent Filings is reasonably apparent on the face of the text of such disclosure to be applicable to the subject matter of the representation or warranty intended to be qualified thereby), or (b) in the disclosure schedule delivered by the Mosaic Parties to Cargill (the "") simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the Mosaic Parties jointly and severally represent and warrant to Cargill (and, with respect solely to Section 5.7, the MAC Trusts), on the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date (or as of such specific date in the case of any representation or warranty expressly made as of a specific date), as follows:
Mosaic Recent Filings
provided
Mosaic Disclosure Schedule
SECTION 5.1 . Each Mosaic Party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the state of its incorporation or organization, as the case may be, and has all requisite corporate or other organizational power and authority necessary to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions.
Organization and Power
SECTION 5.2 .
Authorization and Enforceability
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each Mosaic Party of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, and the consummation of the Transactions, have been duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on the part of each Mosaic Party, except that (v) Mosaic's ability to consummate the Merger is subject to receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval, (w) Merger Sub's ability to consummate the Merger is subject to the adoption and/or approval of this Agreement and the Merger by M Holdings as the sole member of Merger Sub, (y) the amendment and restatement of the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings contemplated by Section 3.2(c) is subject to the approval of the M Holdings Board of Directors and adoption by Mosaic as the sole stockholder of M Holdings in each case prior to the Closing Date and (z) the amendment and restatement of the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings contemplated by Section 3.2(d) is subject to the approval of the M Holdings Board of Directors and the adoption by Mosaic as the sole stockholder of M Holdings in each case prior to the Closing Date. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Mosaic Party, and the other Transaction Documents to which any of the Mosaic Parties is or will be a party has been or will be duly executed and delivered by each Mosaic Party that is or will be a party thereto, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and such other Transaction Documents by Cargill and
 
the other parties thereto (other than the Mosaic Parties), this Agreement and each of such other Transaction Documents is or will be a valid and binding obligation of each Mosaic Party that is or will be a party thereto, enforceable against each such Mosaic Party in accordance with its terms, except (i) as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity, and (ii) with respect to the rights of indemnification and contribution hereunder, where enforcement hereof may be limited by federal or state securities Laws or the policies underlying such Laws.
(b) The affirmative votes (in person or by proxy) of both (i) the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock and (ii) the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock not held by Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries, in favor of the adoption of this Agreement (the "") are the only votes or approvals of the holders of any class or series of capital stock of Mosaic that is necessary to consummate the Merger and the other Transactions.
Mosaic Shareholder Approval
(c) The Mosaic Special Committee, at a meeting duly called and held, unanimously (i) determined that this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the Transactions are advisable and fair to, and in the best interests of, the Mosaic Shareholders (other than Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries), (ii) recommended that the Board of Directors approve this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the Transactions, and (iii) resolved to recommend that the Mosaic Shareholders vote to adopt this Agreement. The Board of Directors of Mosaic, at a meeting duly called and held, (i) approved this Agreement, the other Transaction Documents and the Transactions, (ii) determined that this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the Transactions are advisable and fair to, and in the best interests of, the Mosaic Shareholders (other than Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries), (iii) resolved to recommend that the Mosaic Shareholders vote to adopt this Agreement, and (iv) directed that this Agreement be submitted to the Mosaic Shareholders for their adoption at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose.
(d) The Board of Directors of Mosaic and the Board of Directors of M Holdings have each approved the Transactions for purposes of Section 203 of the DGCL.
SECTION 5.3 . The execution, delivery and performance by each Mosaic Party of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and the compliance by the Mosaic Parties with the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the Transactions will not conflict with, violate or result in any breach of any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the right of termination or acceleration under, or require any notice or consent under (i) any provision of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or similar organizational documents of any Mosaic Party; or (ii) any Contract or Law applicable to any Mosaic Party or their Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, assuming that all consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations and declarations contemplated by Section 5.4 have been obtained and all filings described therein have been made, other than any such conflict, violation, breach, default, termination and acceleration under clause (ii) that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect. Except as specifically contemplated by Section 3.5, none of the Transactions will result in any adjustment of the number of shares subject to, or the terms of, including exercise price, any outstanding Mosaic Awards or result in the acceleration of the vesting of, or enhancement of any of the benefits under, any such outstanding Mosaic Awards.
Non-Contravention
 
SECTION 5.4 . Except for filings required under, and compliance with other applicable requirements of, (a) the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, and any applicable foreign or state securities laws, (b) the rules and regulations of the NYSE, (c) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and the filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware of an amended and restated certificate of incorporation of M Holdings as contemplated by Section 3.2(c) and an amended and restated certificate of incorporation of M Holdings as contemplated by Section 3.2(d), (d) filings (if any) required under, and compliance with other applicable requirements of the HSR Act (clauses (a)-(d) collectively, the ""), and (e) any consent, approval, action or filing the absence of which would not have, or reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect, no consents, approvals or orders of, or filings, declaration or registrations with, any Governmental Authority are required on the part of any Mosaic Party or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by each Mosaic Party of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and the compliance by the Mosaic Parties with the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the Transactions.
Governmental Approvals
Mosaic Required Consents
SECTION 5.5 .
Capital Stock
(a) As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital stock of Mosaic consists of 715,000,000 shares of which 700,000,000 shares are Mosaic Common Stock and 15,000,000 shares are Mosaic Preferred Stock. As of the close of business on January 14, 2011 (the ""), there were 446,178,085 shares of Mosaic Common Stock outstanding. As of the date of this Agreement, there are no shares of Mosaic Preferred Stock outstanding or held in treasury. As of the Capitalization Date, there were (i) 2,807,6558 shares of Mosaic Common Stock subject to outstanding and unexercised Mosaic Options with a weighted average exercise price of $35.72 per share and (ii) 532,762 restricted stock units with respect to Mosaic Common Stock. Since the Capitalization Date through the date of this Agreement, Mosaic has not issued any shares of Mosaic Common Stock other than pursuant to the vesting or exercise of Mosaic Awards in accordance with their terms and has not issued or granted any Mosaic Awards. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock are duly authorized, validly issued in compliance with applicable Law, fully paid and non-assessable and not entitled to pre-emptive rights. Other than the Mosaic Awards, neither Mosaic nor any of its Subsidiaries has outstanding, or is under any obligation, contingent or otherwise, with respect to, any preemptive or other rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interests in Mosaic, or any other security or right that may entitle its holder to vote, or participate with respect to dividends or upon liquidation of Mosaic, with the holders of shares of capital stock or other equity interests of Mosaic (any such securities or rights, ""), or any Contract of any kind relating to the issuance of any capital stock of or other equity interest in Mosaic, any such convertible or exchangeable securities, any such rights, warrants or options, or any Mosaic Equity-Linked Securities. Immediately after the Merger Effective Time, Mosaic will be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of M Holdings.
Capitalization Date
Mosaic Equity Linked Securities
 
(b) As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital stock of M Holdings consists of 1,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which one share is issued and outstanding and such issued and outstanding share of common stock is owned of record and beneficially solely by Mosaic. Such issued and outstanding share of common stock of M Holdings is, and when shares of M Holdings Common Stock are issued pursuant to the reclassification pursuant to the amendment and restatement of the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings contemplated by Section 3.2(c) of this Agreement and when shares of M Holdings Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Class B Common Stock are issued in connection with the Merger, such shares will be, duly authorized, validly issued in compliance with applicable Law, fully paid and non-assessable, not entitled to pre-emptive rights. Neither M Holdings nor any of its Subsidiaries has outstanding, or is under any obligation, contingent or otherwise, with respect to, any preemptive or other rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interests in M Holdings, or any other security or right that may entitle its holder to vote, or participate with respect to dividends or upon liquidation of M Holdings, with the holders of shares of capital stock or other equity interests of M Holdings (any such securities or rights, ""), or any Contract relating to the issuance of any shares of capital stock or other equity interests in M Holdings, any such convertible or exchangeable securities, any such rights, warrants or options or any M Holdings Equity Linked Securities.
M Holdings Equity Linked Securities
(c) As of the date of this Agreement, M Holdings is the sole member of Merger Sub. All limited liability company interests of Merger Sub issued and outstanding are duly authorized, validly issued in compliance with applicable Law, fully paid and non-assessable, and not entitled to pre-emptive rights. As of the date of this Agreement, Merger Sub does not have authorized or outstanding any membership interests or voting securities of Merger Sub, or any securities of Merger Sub convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock or other securities of Merger Sub, other than the limited liability company interests held by M Holdings. Merger Sub was organized solely for the purposes of effectuating the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement. Merger Sub has no liabilities, commitments or obligations of any kind (known or unknown, fixed or contingent) other than the obligations set forth in or arising from this Agreement and has not entered into any Contracts other than this Agreement.
SECTION 5.6 . Except for JPMorgan Securities Inc. and Lazard Frres & Co. LLC, the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Mosaic (except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or as determined in accordance with the Registration Agreement), no broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission, or reimbursement of expenses, in connection with the Merger or the Split-off based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of any Mosaic Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries.
Brokers and Other Advisors
SECTION 5.7 . Mosaic (and, to the extent applicable, M Holdings) has timely filed with or otherwise furnished to the SEC all forms, reports, schedules, statements and other documents required to be filed or furnished by it under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act since January 1, 2009, together with all certifications required pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "") (these documents, as supplemented or amended since the time of filing, and together with all information incorporated by reference therein and
SEC Reports
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
the schedules and exhibits thereto, the ""). The Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports filed or furnished with or to the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, at the time filed or furnished (or, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date of this Agreement, then as of the date of such filing), (i) complied in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports and (ii) did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports to be filed or furnished with or to the SEC from the date of this Agreement through the Closing Date (other than the Mosaic Transaction Documents, which shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Sections 7.2(d) and (e)), at the time filed or furnished, (i) will comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports and (ii) will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports
SECTION 5.8 . The audited consolidated financial statements and the other financial statements of Mosaic and its consolidated Subsidiaries included in the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports (including in each case any related notes and schedules) filed with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, at the time filed fairly present, and any audited consolidated financial statements and the other financial statements of Mosaic and its consolidated Subsidiaries to be included in the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports (including in each case any related notes and schedules) to be filed with the SEC from the date of this Agreement through the Closing Date will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Mosaic and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates set forth therein and the consolidated results of their operations and their consolidated cash flows for the periods set forth therein, and in each case (A) were, or will be, as applicable, prepared from, and in accordance with, the books and records of Mosaic and its Subsidiaries in all material respects, and (B) were, or will be, as applicable, prepared in conformity with GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved (except as otherwise disclosed in the notes thereto and subject, in the case of financial statements for quarterly periods, to normal and recurring year-end adjustments).
Financial Statements
SECTION 5.9 . (a) Mosaic has established and maintains (and as of the Closing Date M Holdings will have established and maintained) a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that complies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder and has been designed by Mosaic's (or M Holdings') Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP; and (b) except as disclosed as required in the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports filed by Mosaic with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, Mosaic's (or M Holdings', as applicable) internal control over financial reporting is effective, and Mosaic (or M Holdings, as applicable) is not aware of any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control
 
SECTION 5.10 . Mosaic has established and maintains (and as of the Closing Date M Holdings will have established and maintained) disclosure controls and procedures (as such terms are defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder; such disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that material information relating to Mosaic (or M Holdings, as applicable) and its Subsidiaries is made known to Mosaic's (or M Holdings', as applicable) Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer by others within Mosaic (or M Holdings, as applicable); and except as disclosed as required in the Mosaic Parties' SEC Reports filed by Mosaic with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, such disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide such reasonable assurance.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
SECTION 5.11 . Since May 31, 2010, there has not been any Event or Events that have had or would be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect.
No Material Adverse Change
Except as disclosed in the disclosure schedule delivered by Cargill to Mosaic (the "") simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, Cargill hereby represents and warrants to Mosaic, on the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date (or as of such specific date in the case of any representation or warranty expressly made as of a specific date), as follows:
Cargill Disclosure Schedule
SECTION 6.1 . Cargill is duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority necessary to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions.
Organization and Power
SECTION 6.2 . The execution, delivery and performance by Cargill of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, and the consummation of the Transactions, have been duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on the part of Cargill. Subject to compliance with, or receipt of waivers of, the notice and option to purchase provisions set forth in Article IV, Section 10 of the certificate of incorporation of Cargill, or the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation of Cargill to otherwise permit the transactions contemplated hereby, no other corporate action or proceedings on the part of Cargill is necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by Cargill of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party or the consummation of the Transactions. Subject to compliance with, or receipt of waivers of, the notice and option to purchase provisions set forth in Article IV, Section 10 of the certificate of incorporation of Cargill, or the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation of Cargill to otherwise permit the transactions contemplated hereby, no vote or consent of the stockholders of Cargill is necessary to adopt or approve this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents or approve the Transactions under applicable Law or
Authorization and Enforceability
 
otherwise. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Cargill, and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party has been or will be duly executed and delivered by Cargill, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and such other Transaction Documents by the other parties thereto, this Agreement and each of such other Transaction Documents is or will be a valid and binding obligation of Cargill, enforceable against Cargill in accordance with its terms, except (i) as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity, and (ii) with respect to the rights of indemnification and contribution hereunder, where enforcement hereof may be limited by federal or state securities Laws or the policies underlying such Laws. The Board of Directors of Cargill, at a meeting duly called and held, has approved the Transaction Documents and the Transactions.
SECTION 6.3 The execution, delivery and performance by Cargill of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and the compliance by Cargill with the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the Transactions, will not conflict with, violate or result in any breach of any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the right of termination or acceleration under, or require any notice or consent under (a) any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Cargill (subject to compliance with, or receipt of waivers of, the notice and option to purchase provisions set forth in Article IV, Section 10 of the certificate of incorporation of Cargill, or the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation of Cargill to otherwise permit the transactions contemplated hereby); or (b) any Contract or Law applicable to Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, assuming that all consent, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations and declarations contemplated by Section 6.4 have been obtained and all filings described therein have been made, other than any such conflict, violation, breach, default, termination and acceleration under clause (b) that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Cargill Material Adverse Effect.
Non-Contravention.
SECTION 6.4 Except for filings required under, and compliance with other applicable requirements of, (a) the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, and any applicable foreign or state securities laws, (b) filings (if any) required under, and compliance with other applicable requirements of the HSR Act (collectively, the ""), (c) the Private Letter Ruling, the IRS Ruling Submission and related filings and declarations and (d) any consent, approval, action or filing the absence of which would not have, or reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Cargill Material Adverse Effect, no consents, approvals or orders of, or filings, declaration or registrations with, any Governmental Authority are required on the part of Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Cargill of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and the compliance by the Cargill with the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the Transactions. As of the date of this Agreement, Cargill has no knowledge or reason to believe that it will not be able to obtain the Cargill Required Consents.
Governmental Approvals.
Cargill Required Consents
SECTION 6.5 As of the date of this Agreement, Cargill directly owns 11,631,933 shares of Mosaic Common Stock, GNS I, a direct
Title to Shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
 
wholly-owned Subsidiary of Cargill, directly owns 30,155,221 shares of Mosaic Common Stock, and CFI, a direct majority-owned Subsidiary of Cargill, directly owns 243,972,618 shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
SECTION 6.6 Except for Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Cargill (or as determined in accordance with the Registration Agreement), no broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission, or reimbursement of expenses, in connection with any of the Transactions based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries or similar rights.
Brokers and Other Advisors.
SECTION 6.7 As of the date of this Agreement Cargill has received the Initial Tax Opinion.
Initial Tax Opinion.
SECTION 7.1
Interim Covenants.
(a) From the date of this Agreement through the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents, required by Law or the regulations or requirements of any stock exchange applicable to the Mosaic Parties, disclosed in Section 7.1 of the Mosaic Disclosure Schedule, without Cargill's written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed):
(i) none of the Mosaic Parties shall approve, amend or propose to amend the certificate of incorporation or by-laws or equivalent organizational documents of any of the Mosaic Parties in a manner that would adversely affect the rights of the Mosaic Shareholders in any material respect or that would reasonably be expected to delay or impair the Transactions or the parties' ability to comply with their obligations under the Transaction Documents;
(ii) none of the Mosaic Parties shall enter into or adopt a plan or agreement of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or conversion or effect any partial liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or conversion;
(iii) neither Mosaic nor M Holdings shall, nor shall Mosaic or M Holdings permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, sell, issue, transfer, redeem, grant, pledge, hypothecate, distribute or otherwise dispose of any shares of capital stock, or any other voting securities, of any Mosaic Party, or any rights, options, warrants or securities convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for, any shares of capital stock or other voting securities of, any Mosaic Party (whether or not then convertible, exchangeable, exercisable or then entitling the holder to subscribe), other than (x) the issuance by Mosaic of shares of Mosaic Common Stock pursuant to the exercise or vesting of Mosaic Awards outstanding under the Mosaic Plans and (y) the grant by Mosaic of Mosaic Awards (other than shares of Mosaic Common Stock) prior to the Share Number Date in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, so long as no such Mosaic Awards shall vest or become exercisable in the ordinary course until after the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement;
 
(iv) neither Mosaic nor M Holdings shall, nor shall Mosaic or M Holdings permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, accelerate the vesting or exercisability of any of the Mosaic Awards, except as may be required by the terms thereof;
(v) Mosaic shall not, and Mosaic shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change the principal business of Mosaic and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from the business of mining, producing, marketing and selling phosphate and potash fertilizer and phosphate- and potash-based animal feed products to any different line of business, or enter into any line of business that is not reasonably related or complementary to the business of mining, producing, marketing and selling phosphate and potash fertilizer and phosphate- and potash-based animal feed products;
(vi) Mosaic shall not, and Mosaic shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, acquire, or enter into any agreement to acquire any businesses, assets, product lines, business units, business operations, equity securities or other properties, including by way of merger or consolidation or otherwise, other than acquisitions (a) that would not give rise to a requirement on the part of Mosaic to file with the SEC financial statements for any acquired businesses on a Current Report on Form 8-K or in connection with any proxy statement or registration statement of Mosaic or M Holdings, and (b) that are not material to Mosaic (or, following the Merger, M Holdings) and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(vii) Mosaic shall not, and Mosaic shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, "hold for sale, transfer or other disposition" or discontinue the operations of, any businesses, assets, product lines, business units, business operations, equity securities or other properties, including by way of merger or consolidation or otherwise, unless such action or actions (a) would not give rise to a requirement on the part of Mosaic or M Holdings to file with the SEC pro forma or restated financial statements and (b) would not be material to Mosaic (or, following the Merger, M Holdings) and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(viii) none of the Mosaic Parties shall, nor shall any of them permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any of the outstanding shares of shares of capital stock, or any other voting securities, of any Mosaic Party, or any right, options, warrants or securities convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for, any shares of capital stock, or other voting securities of, any Mosaic Party (whether or not then convertible, exchangeable, exercisable or then entitling the holder to subscribe), except for the acquisition by any Mosaic Party of any shares of capital stock in the ordinary course in connection with the exercise or vesting of equity-based awards granted under any employee or director benefit plan or arrangement of any Mosaic Party (including in order to pay taxes or satisfy withholding obligations in respect of such taxes in connection with such exercises or vesting);
(ix) neither Mosaic nor Mosaic Holdings shall (A) declare, set aside for payment or pay any dividend on, or make any other distribution (whether in cash, stock or other
 
form) in respect of, any shares of its capital stock (other than ordinary course quarterly cash dividends by Mosaic to its stockholders (including any ordinary course increases in such quarterly dividends)) or (B) adjust, split, combine, subdivide or reclassify any shares of its capital stock; and
(x) none of the Mosaic Parties shall authorize any of, or commit to do or enter into any Contract with respect to any of, the foregoing actions referenced in clauses (i) through (ix) of this Section 7.1(a) or publicly announce an intention to take any of the actions referenced in clauses (i) through (ix) of this Section 7.1(a).
(b) Immediately following the execution and delivery of this Agreement, M Holdings, in its capacity as the sole member of Merger Sub, will adopt and approve this Agreement and approve the Merger, and such adoption and approval is the only vote or approval of the holders of any class or series of the equity securities of Merger Sub that is necessary to adopt and approve this Agreement and the Merger and consummate the Merger and the other Transactions.
(c) From the date of this Agreement through the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, each of Mosaic and M Holdings shall timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder.
(d) From the date of this Agreement through the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents (including with respect to any action taken in connection with the First Formation Offering) or required by Law, without Cargill's written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), Mosaic and M Holdings shall not, nor shall any Mosaic Party authorize, permit or direct any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Representatives to:
(i) knowingly facilitate the acquisition of shares of Mosaic Common Stock by any Person or coordinating group (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.355-7(h)(4)) other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries, including by furnishing any material, non-public information concerning any Mosaic Party to any such Person or coordinating group, if, to the knowledge of Mosaic, such acquisition would result in any Person beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock; or
(ii) knowingly facilitate the participation in the management or operation of Mosaic (including by becoming a director of Mosaic) by a Person or coordinating group (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.355-7(h)(4)) other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries who, to the knowledge of Mosaic, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
SECTION 7.2 .
Mosaic Shareholder Meeting; Preparation of Proxy Statement and Registration Statement; Mosaic Board Recommendation
(a) Mosaic shall, in accordance with applicable Law and its certificate of incorporation and bylaws, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of the Mosaic
 
Shareholders (the "") as promptly as reasonably practicable following the date hereof for the purpose of obtaining the Mosaic Shareholder Approval and shall take all reasonable action to solicit the Mosaic Shareholder Approval. Notwithstanding any Change in the Mosaic Recommendation, unless this Agreement has been terminated pursuant to the terms hereof, this Agreement shall be submitted to the Mosaic Shareholders at the Mosaic Shareholder Meeting and nothing contained herein shall be deemed to relieve Mosaic of such obligation.
Mosaic Shareholders Meeting
(b) As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement, (x) Mosaic and M Holdings shall prepare and M Holdings shall file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 to register all shares of M Holdings Stock that will be issued in connection with the Merger (such registration statement, as it may be amended and supplemented, the ""), which shall include a proxy statement (as it may be amended and supplemented, the "") to be used to obtain the Mosaic Shareholder Approval at the Mosaic Shareholders Meeting and (y) Mosaic shall file with the SEC the Proxy Statement. Mosaic and M Holdings shall take, or cause to be taken, all actions and do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, including filing all necessary amendments and supplements to have the Form S-4 declared effective, and the Proxy Statement cleared by the SEC for mailing in definitive form, as promptly as practicable after the filing thereof and to keep the Form S-4 effective as long as is necessary to consummate the Merger.
Form S-4
Proxy Statement
(c) The Proxy Statement shall state that (i) the Mosaic Special Committee and the Board of Directors of Mosaic determined that this Agreement, the applicable Transaction Documents and the Transactions are advisable and fair to and in the best interests of the Mosaic Shareholders (other than Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries); (ii) the Mosaic Special Committee recommended that the Board of Directors approve this Agreement, the applicable Transaction Documents and the Transactions; and (iii) the Mosaic Special Committee and the Board of Directors of Mosaic recommends that the Mosaic Shareholders vote to adopt this Agreement (such recommendation described in clause (iii), the "") (except to the extent that the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic effects a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation in accordance with Section 7.2(g)).
Mosaic Recommendation
(d) Mosaic and M Holdings shall take all steps necessary on the part of Mosaic and M Holdings for the Form S-4, the Proxy Statement and any other documents relating to the Merger filed with or furnished to the SEC, or disclosed to the Mosaic Shareholders, by Mosaic or M Holdings, in connection with the Merger (collectively, the ""), in each case to the extent applicable, to be timely filed with the SEC, to comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act (it being understood that Mosaic and M Holdings shall not be deemed to have failed to comply with its obligations under this paragraph (d) to the extent that its failure to so comply shall have resulted from a breach by Cargill of its obligations under Section 7.2(e)).
Mosaic Transaction Documents
(e) Cargill shall provide to the Mosaic Parties all information concerning Cargill, its Subsidiaries and its stockholders that is required or reasonably requested by Mosaic and M Holdings in connection with the preparation of the Mosaic Transaction Documents. Cargill and the MAC Trusts and their respective counsel shall be given a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the Mosaic Transaction Documents, in each case and each time, sufficiently in
 
advance of any such document being filed with or furnished to the SEC or disseminated to Mosaic Shareholders, and Mosaic and M Holdings shall give reasonable and good faith consideration to any comments made by Cargill, the MAC Trusts or their respective counsel. The Mosaic Parties agree that at the time of filing of the Mosaic Transaction Documents with the SEC, on the date of the dissemination the Mosaic Transaction Documents to Mosaic Shareholders and at the time of the Mosaic Shareholders Meeting, (i) none of the information included or incorporated by reference in the Mosaic Transaction Documents shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that (for the avoidance of doubt) no covenant, agreement, representation or warranty is made by the Mosaic Parties with respect to statements or omissions based on information supplied in writing by, or on behalf of, Cargill for inclusion in the Mosaic Transaction Documents. Cargill agrees that at the time of filing of the Mosaic Transaction Documents with the SEC, on the date of the dissemination of the Mosaic Transaction Documents to Mosaic Shareholders and at the time of the Mosaic Shareholders Meeting, the information supplied by it in writing for inclusion in the Mosaic Transaction Documents shall not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Each party agrees promptly to correct any information provided by it for use in any of the Mosaic Transaction Documents (or, in the case of Mosaic or M Holdings, information incorporated into any of the Mosaic Transaction Documents by reference) if and to the extent that any such information shall have become false or misleading in any material respect, and Mosaic and M Holdings agree to take all steps necessary to cause the Mosaic Transaction Documents as so corrected to be timely filed with or furnished to the SEC, and/or disseminated to the Mosaic Shareholders, to the extent required by applicable Law.
(f) Mosaic and M Holdings shall provide Cargill and the MAC Trusts and their respective counsel with (A) any comments or other communications, whether written or oral, that such party or its counsel may receive from time to time from the SEC or its staff with respect to the Mosaic Transaction Documents promptly after receipt of those comments or other communications and (B) a reasonable opportunity to participate in the response of such party to those comments and to provide comments on that response (to which reasonable and good faith consideration shall be given), including by participating with such party or its counsel in any discussions or meetings with the SEC.
(g) The Mosaic Special Committee and the Board of Directors of Mosaic shall not fail to make, and shall not withdraw, qualify, amend or modify or publicly propose to withdraw, qualify, amend or modify the Mosaic Recommendation (any of the foregoing, a ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Mosaic Special Committee and/or the Board of Directors of Mosaic may, prior to receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval, effect a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation in response to one or more Intervening Events if (a) the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic shall have determined in good faith, after considering advice from outside legal counsel that its failure to effect a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable Law, and (b) the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic promptly notifies Cargill, in writing, at least
Change in the Mosaic Recommendation
 
three (3) Business Days before effecting a Change in Mosaic Recommendation, of its intention to do so, describing the applicable Intervening Event. To the extent Cargill proposes changes to the terms of the Transactions during the three (3) Business Day period referred to above, the Mosaic Parties shall negotiate in good faith with Cargill with respect to such changes during such period, and the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic shall not effect a Change in Mosaic Recommendation unless the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic shall have determined in good faith, after considering advice from outside legal counsel that, notwithstanding any modifications to the terms of the Transactions proposed by Cargill, its failure to effect a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable Law. "" means a material Event that was not known by the Mosaic Special Committee on the date of this Agreement (or if known, the consequences of which were not known to the Mosaic Special Committee as of the date hereof), which Event (or consequences) becomes known to the Mosaic Special Committee before the receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval.
Intervening Event
(h) Nothing contained in Section 7.2(g) or otherwise shall prohibit (x) the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic from taking and disclosing to the Mosaic Shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or making a statement contemplated by Item 1012(a) of Regulation M-A or Rule 14d-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act; , , that any disclosure of a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) or Rule 14d-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act other than a "stop, look and listen" or similar communication of the type contemplated by Rule 14d-9(f) under the Exchange Act, an express rejection of any applicable proposal or an express reaffirmation of its recommendation to its stockholders of the Mosaic Recommendation shall be deemed to be a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation or (y) accurate disclosure (and such disclosure shall not be deemed a Change in Mosaic Recommendation) of factual information regarding the business, financial condition, results of operations or otherwise of Mosaic or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent Mosaic in good faith determines that such disclosure of such information is required to be disclosed under applicable Law or the regulations or requirements of any stock exchange or regulatory organization applicable to the Mosaic Parties.
provided
however
SECTION 7.3
Efforts; Cooperation.
(a) Subject to Section 7.3(d), each of the Mosaic Parties and Cargill shall use their reasonable best efforts to cooperate with each other and to cause the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange and the First Formation Offering to be consummated as promptly as practicable after the date hereof in accordance with the terms hereof and the other Transaction Documents, including using its reasonable best efforts (i) to make promptly any filings that may be required by such party under applicable Law or by any Governmental Authority, and to supply promptly any additional information or documentary material that may be requested by a Governmental Authority, if any, (ii) to obtain all other consents, approvals and authorizations that are required to be obtained by such party under any federal, state, local or foreign Law, (iii) to lift or rescind any Order prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering, (iv) to effect as promptly as practicable all necessary registrations, filings and responses to requests for additional information or documentary material from a Governmental Authority, if any, and (v) to satisfy all conditions to this Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the
 
parties shall take all such action as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate under the securities or "" laws of the United States (and any comparable laws under any non-U.S. jurisdiction as the parties may mutually agree) in connection with the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange and the First Formation Offering (provided that neither Mosaic nor M Holdings shall be required to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject or to qualify in any non-U.S. jurisdictions without its prior consent), and Mosaic and M Holdings shall prepare and file, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to have approved prior to the Closing Date, an application for the listing on the NYSE of the M Holdings Common Stock issuable pursuant to the Merger and the M Holdings Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Class B Common Stock issuable in the Merger, subject to official notice of issuance.
blue sky
(b) Further, and without limiting the generality of the rest of this Section 7.3, but subject to Section 7.3(d), each of the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts shall promptly (i) furnish to the other parties hereto such necessary information and reasonable assistance as the other parties hereto may request in connection with their obligations under this Section 7.3, (ii) inform the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts, as applicable, of any communication from any Governmental Authority regarding any of the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering or related filings or approvals, and (iii) provide counsel for the parties hereto and counsel for the MAC Trusts, as applicable, with copies of all filings made by such party, and all correspondence between such party (and its advisors) with any Governmental Authority and any other information supplied by such party hereto and such party's Subsidiaries or any MAC Trust to a Governmental Authority or received from such a Governmental Authority in connection with this Agreement or the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering; , , that materials so provided may be redacted (x) to remove references concerning any valuation, (y) as necessary to comply with contractual arrangements and (z) as may be necessary to address any reasonable concerns relating to classified, proprietary, privileged or confidential information. Each party hereto and the MAC Trusts and their respective counsel shall, subject to applicable Law, (i) promptly notify the other parties hereto and the MAC Trusts of any material communication between that party and any Governmental Authority and, subject to applicable Law, discuss with and permit the other party to review in advance any proposed written communication to or with any of the foregoing, (ii) consult with the other parties hereto and the MAC Trusts, to the extent practicable, in advance of participating in any substantive meeting or discussion with any Governmental Authority with respect to any filings, investigation or inquiry concerning the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Debt Exchange or the First Formation Offering and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental Authority, give the other parties hereto and the MAC Trusts the opportunity to attend and participate thereat, and (iii) to the extent practicable and subject to applicable Law, furnish the other parties hereto and the MAC Trusts with copies of all written correspondence and communications between it and its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers or employees or any investment banker, financial advisor, attorney, accountant or other advisor, agent or representative (collectively, "") on the one hand, and any Governmental Authority or members of its respective staff on the other hand, with respect to the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering.
provided
however
Representatives
 
Subject to Section 7.3(d) and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein, each of the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts shall use reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties hereto and the MAC Trusts, as applicable, in doing, all things, necessary, proper or advisable to make effective as promptly as practicable the Transactions, including obtaining HSR clearance and other approvals, if any, from any Governmental Authority.
(c) In the event that any Action is instituted (or threatened to be instituted) by a Governmental Authority or private party challenging any of the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange, any Follow-on Exchange or any Formation Offering, each of the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts shall cooperate with each other and use its respective reasonable best efforts to contest and resist any such Action and to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any Order that is in effect and that prohibits, prevents or restricts consummation of the Transactions.
(d) The parties hereto and the MAC Trusts agree and acknowledge that the obligations of the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts pursuant to this Section 7.3 shall be subject to, and without prejudice to, (i) the right of Cargill to delay the Closing Date or (ii) the right of Cargill or Mosaic to terminate this Agreement, in each case pursuant to the terms hereof.
SECTION 7.4 Except for in circumstances in which indemnification or contribution is sought pursuant to Article VIII, until the earlier of the Closing Date or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, the Mosaic Parties shall afford the MAC Trusts, Cargill and their respective Representatives, upon reasonable notice, reasonable access, subject to appropriate restrictions to comply with contractual arrangements or as may be necessary to address any reasonable concerns relating to classified, privileged or confidential information, and consistent with applicable Law and in accordance with the procedures established by Mosaic, to the books, records, properties and personnel of the Mosaic Parties during normal business hours insofar as such access is reasonably required by Cargill or the MAC Trusts in connection with Cargill's or the MAC Trusts' respective obligations under the Transaction Documents.
Access.
SECTION 7.5 Each of the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts shall keep confidential all information concerning the other parties hereto in its possession, its custody or under its control (except to the extent that (a) such information is then in the public domain through no fault of such party or any of the MAC Trusts, as applicable, or (b) such information has been lawfully acquired from other sources by such party hereto or the MAC Trusts, as applicable) and no party hereto or the MAC Trusts shall release or disclose such information to any other Person without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto or the MAC Trusts, as applicable (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that such disclosures may be made by each party hereto or the MAC Trusts to its respective Affiliates and Representatives (and, in the case of Cargill, any of Cargill's stockholders, the Cargill ESOP, and the Cargill Pension Fund), provided the disclosing party or the MAC Trusts, as applicable, shall be responsible for ensuring such Persons agree to keep such information confidential. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties hereto and the MAC Trusts may disclose information related to the Transactions and the other parties hereto to the extent (i) required by Law or in connection with any filings with the SEC, the IRS or any other Governmental Authority relating to the Transactions or (ii) such party or any of the MAC Trusts, as applicable, is compelled to
Confidentiality.
provided
 
disclose such information by judicial or administrative process, that in the case of clauses (i) and (ii) such party or the MAC Trusts, as applicable, has used all commercially reasonable efforts to consult with the other affected party or parties or the MAC Trusts, as applicable, prior to such disclosure, and shall exercise reasonable best efforts to obtain reliable assurance that such information will be accorded confidential treatment.
provided
SECTION 7.6 The initial press release with respect to the execution of this Agreement shall be a joint press release to be reasonably agreed upon by Cargill and Mosaic. No public release, announcement or other public disclosure concerning the Transactions shall be issued by Cargill, on the one hand, or the Mosaic Parties, on the other hand, without the prior written consent of the other party (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) (and, if the announcement or other public disclosure refers to the MAC Trusts, without the prior written consent of the MAC Trusts (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed)), except in the event that such release or announcement may be required by Law or the rules or regulations of any U.S. securities exchange, in which case the party required to make the release or announcement shall use its reasonable best efforts to allow the other party (and, if the announcement or other public disclosure refers to the MAC Trusts, allow the MAC Trusts), reasonable time to comment on each release or announcement in advance of such issuance and shall consider in good faith the views and comments made by such other party (or the MAC Trusts, as applicable) regarding any such release, announcement or other public disclosure.
Public Announcements.
SECTION 7.7
Voting of Mosaic Common Stock by Cargill.
(a) Cargill agrees that it shall, and shall cause any of its Subsidiaries holding shares of Mosaic Common Stock to, be present, in person or by proxy, at the Mosaic Shareholder Meeting, and otherwise to cause all shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries to be counted as present for purposes of establishing a quorum at such meeting, and to vote, or cause to be voted, all shares of Mosaic Common Stock owned by Cargill or its Subsidiaries in favor of (x) the adoption of this Agreement, (y) such other matters as may be included in the Proxy Statement and necessary to consummate the Transactions and (z) the amendments to the Mosaic certificate of incorporation as set forth in hereto, , , that in the case of clauses (y) and (z), unless otherwise agreed by Cargill, any of such other matters or amendments shall be implemented only if the Closing shall have occurred.
Exhibit A
provided
however
(b) The obligations of Cargill and any of its Subsidiaries under this Section 7.7 shall terminate upon a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation.
SECTION 7.8
Transfers of Mosaic Common Stock by Cargill; Agreements by Cargill.
(a) From the date of this Agreement through the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents or required by Law, without Mosaic's written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), Cargill shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, Transfer any shares of Mosaic Common Stock owned by Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries other than Transfers to Cargill or its Subsidiaries. Cargill shall cause all shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Subsidiaries of Cargill to be transferred to Cargill on or prior to the Closing Date.
 
(b) Except as set forth in Section 7.8(c) and as otherwise contemplated or permitted by this Agreement, during the period commencing on the date of this Agreement and continuing to the earlier of the Closing Date or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, Cargill shall not, and it shall not authorize, permit or direct any of its Subsidiaries, or authorize or direct its or their respective Representatives to, without the prior approval of the Mosaic Special Committee, directly or indirectly: (a) effect or seek, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) to effect, or cause or participate with or in any way knowingly assist any other Person to effect or seek, offer or propose (whether public or otherwise) to initiate, effect or participate in or support, (i) any acquisition of any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof) or material assets of Mosaic or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any tender or exchange offer or merger or other business combination involving Mosaic or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) any recapitalization, restructuring, liquidation, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction with respect to Mosaic or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are defined or used in Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) with respect to the voting of any shares of Mosaic Common Stock; (b) form, join or in any way participate in any "group" (other than with respect to Cargill's Affiliates) with respect to any of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock; (c) submit any written consent or proposal to the Mosaic Shareholders in furtherance of the foregoing or call a special meeting of Mosaic Shareholders; (d) publicly disclose any intention, proposal, plan or arrangement with respect to any of the foregoing; or (e) take any action, or request any amendment or waiver hereof, that would reasonably be expected to require Mosaic to make a public announcement with respect to the matters set forth in (a) or (c) above.
(c) During the period commencing on the date of this Agreement and continuing to the earlier of the Closing Date or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, Cargill shall not, and it shall not authorize, permit or direct any of its Subsidiaries, or authorize or direct its or their respective Representatives to, directly or indirectly through another Person, except as otherwise provided in this Section 7.8(c), (i) solicit, initiate, or knowingly encourage any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes or is reasonably likely to lead to an Alternative Proposal or (ii) other than informing Persons of the provisions contained in this Section 7.8(c), participate in any discussions or negotiations with, or furnish any information concerning Cargill, Mosaic and their respective Subsidiaries to, any Person in connection with any Alternative Proposal; , , that, notwithstanding any provision in this Section 7.8, if at any time after the date of this Agreement Cargill receives a written Alternative Proposal from a third party that did not result from a breach of this Section 7.8(c), then Cargill may (x) furnish information regarding Cargill, Mosaic and their respective Subsidiaries to the Person or Persons making such Alternative Proposal and their respective financing sources (and their respective Representatives), (y) participate in discussions or negotiations with the Person or Persons making such Alternative Proposal and their respective financing sources (and their respective Representatives) and (z) enter into a definitive agreement with respect to such Alternative Proposal; that Cargill will not, and will not allow its Representatives to, disclose any non-public information regarding the Mosaic Parties or their respective Subsidiaries to any Person or Persons making such Alternative Proposal or any of their respective financing sources unless the Person or Persons making the Alternative Proposal enters into a confidentiality agreement with Cargill in form and substance reasonably acceptable
provided
however
bona fide
provided
 
to Mosaic. Cargill agrees that it shall promptly (and in any event, within 48 hours) notify the Mosaic Special Committee if any proposals or offers with respect to an Alternative Proposal are received by, any non-public information is requested from, or any discussion or negotiations are sought to be initiated or continued with, it or any of its Representatives indicating, in connection with such notice, the identity of the parties and the material terms and conditions of any proposals or offers (including, if applicable, copies of any written request, proposals or offers, including proposed agreements) and thereafter shall keep the Mosaic Special Committee reasonably informed of the status and terms of any such proposal or offers (including any amendments thereto) and the status of any such discussions or negotiations. None of Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries shall, after the date of this Agreement, enter into any confidentiality or similar agreement that would prohibit it from providing such information to the Mosaic Special Committee.
SECTION 7.9
Further Assurances; Post-Closing Cooperation.
(a) Each of the parties agrees that, from time to time, whether before, at or after the Closing Date, each of them will execute and deliver such further instruments of conveyance and transfer and take such other action as may be necessary (x) to effect the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange and the First Formation Offering as promptly as practicable after the date hereof in accordance with the terms hereof and the other applicable Transaction Documents, and (y) to effect the orderly separation of the business and operations of the parties following the Closing. In furtherance of the foregoing, and except for in circumstances in which indemnification or contribution is sought pursuant to Article VIII, from and after the Closing Date (A) the Mosaic Parties, on the one hand, and Cargill, on the other hand, shall provide all cooperation, assistance and information reasonably necessary or requested from time to time by the other party following the Closing and (B) the Mosaic Parties shall, upon reasonable notice and otherwise consistent with applicable Law and in accordance with the procedures established by Mosaic, provide Cargill and its Representatives with the reasonable assistance of applicable personnel and reasonable access to the books, records, properties and similar information within its possession or control insofar as such information is required by Cargill for, without limitation, any audit, financial reporting, accounting, claims, litigation or tax purposes as well as for the purposes of fulfilling Cargill's disclosure and reporting obligations. Each of the parties shall keep all information provided by any other party pursuant to this Section 7.9(a) confidential in accordance with Section 7.5.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in Section 7.9(a), (i) the covenants contained in Section 7.9(a) shall not be in lieu of or otherwise limit (x) the indemnification obligations of the parties pursuant to Article VIII hereof or (y) the right of Cargill or Mosaic to terminate this Agreement pursuant to the terms hereof and (ii) Cargill's obligations pursuant to Section 7.9(a) shall be subject to, and without prejudice to the right of Cargill to delay the Closing Date pursuant to the terms hereof.
SECTION 7.10 In the event that a Material Market Event has occurred, Cargill shall deliver to Mosaic a certificate (the "") to that effect signed by an officer of Cargill, describing in reasonable detail the nature of the Material Market Event. At any time following its receipt of the Market Event Notice, Mosaic may request (by delivery of a written notice to Cargill to such effect (a "
Material Market Event Notice
.
Market Event Notice
Mosaic Waiver
 
")) that Cargill fully and irrevocably waive its right to invoke the condition set forth in Section 9.3(g) with respect to such Material Market Event. In the event that Cargill delivers to Mosaic a written notice that Cargill so waives its right (a ""), then such Material Market Event shall cease to be a basis for Cargill not effecting the Closing, and the condition set forth in Section 9.3(g) shall no longer exist with respect to such Material Market Event. In the event Cargill fails to deliver a Cargill Waiver Notice with respect to a Material Market Event within ten (10) Business Days after Cargill's receipt of the corresponding Mosaic Waiver Request (the ""), then Mosaic shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1(c)(iv).
Request
Cargill Waiver Notice
Requisite Response Period
SECTION 7.11 . Prior to the Effective Time, the Mosaic Parties shall each take all such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to cause the disposition of shares of capital stock of Mosaic (or of derivative securities in respect of any shares of capital stock of Mosaic) by each director (including by deputization) or officer of Mosaic in connection with the consummation of the Merger, and the acquisition of capital stock of M Holdings (or of derivative securities in respect of any shares of capital stock of M Holdings) by each director (including by deputization) or officer of Mosaic in connection with the consummation of the Merger, to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, including any such actions specified in the No-Action Letter dated January 12, 1999, issued by the SEC to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP.
Exemption from Liability Under Section 16(b)
SECTION 7.12 . From the date of this Agreement through the earlier of the Closing Date and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, Cargill shall not exercise its right to terminate the MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement pursuant to Section 6.1(a) thereof or pursuant to the comparable provision of any Tender and Support Agreement without the prior approval of Mosaic, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
SECTION 7.13 . As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement, Mosaic shall engage an independent, third party valuation expert acceptable to Cargill to provide at least four (4) Business Days prior to the Share Number Date a valuation of M Holdings as of the Share Number Date and determine the Reclassified Share Number. The scope of analyses to be performed by the valuation firm (including the methodologies and any related assumptions, limitations or qualifications) shall be set forth in a written agreement between the valuation firm and Mosaic in form and substance acceptable to Cargill, and Mosaic and Cargill shall participate equally in all substantive discussions and all meetings with the valuation firm, receive simultaneously and jointly review and provide comments on all drafts of the valuation report, and such valuation firm shall be instructed to consider in good faith all comments provided by Cargill and Mosaic. Cargill and Mosaic shall agree on the valuation of M Holdings and the Reclassified Share Number by the date described in Section 2.2(a)(ii).
M Holdings Valuation
SECTION 8.1 Except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement, all covenants, representations, warranties and agreements of the parties contained in this Agreement, or in any certificate delivered in connection with this Agreement, shall survive the consummation of the Merger and the Split-off.
Survival.
 
SECTION 8.2 Mosaic and M Holdings shall, jointly and severally, indemnify, defend and hold harmless Cargill and its Subsidiaries, Affiliates, each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") from and against:
Indemnification by the Mosaic Parties.
Cargill Indemnified Parties
(a) any and all Losses to the extent arising out of, attributable to or resulting from any breach or inaccuracy of any representation or warranty of any Mosaic Party contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement; and
(b) any and all Losses to the extent arising out of, attributable to or resulting from any breach of any covenant or agreement to be performed by any Mosaic Party contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 8.3 Cargill shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Mosaic Parties and their Subsidiaries, Affiliates, each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") from and against:
Indemnification by Cargill.
Mosaic Indemnified Parties
(a) any and all Losses to the extent arising out of, attributable to or resulting from any breach or inaccuracy of any representation or warranty of Cargill contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement; and
(b) any and all Losses to the extent arising out of, attributable to or resulting from any breach of any covenant or agreement to be performed by Cargill contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 8.4
Notice; Procedure for Third-Party Claims.
(a) Any Person that may be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement (an "") may seek indemnification for any Loss or potential Loss by giving written notice to the applicable party or parties from whom indemnification is sought (the ""), specifying (i) the representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement that is alleged to have been inaccurate, to have been breached or to have given rise to indemnification, (ii) the basis for such allegation and (iii) if known, the aggregate amount of the Losses for which a claim is being made under this Article VIII or, to the extent that such Losses are not known or have not been incurred at the time such claim is made, an estimate, prepared in good faith, of the aggregate potential amount of such Losses. Written notice to such Indemnifying Party of the existence of a claim shall be given by the Indemnified Party as soon as practicable after the Indemnified Party first receives notice of the potential claim; that any failure to provide such prompt notice of the existence of a claim to the applicable Indemnifying Party shall not affect the Indemnified Party's right to seek indemnification pursuant to this Article VIII except and only to the extent that such failure results in a lack of actual notice to the Indemnifying Party and such Indemnifying Party has been materially prejudiced as a result of such delay.
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
provided
 
(b) In the case of any claim asserted by a Person that is not a party to this Agreement against an Indemnified Party (a ""), the Indemnified Party shall permit the Indemnifying Party (at the expense of such Indemnifying Party) to assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim and any litigation or proceeding resulting therefrom; that (i) counsel for the Indemnifying Party who shall conduct the defense of such claim or litigation shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party and (ii) the Indemnified Party may participate in such defense at such Indemnified Party's expense. Except with the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld), no Indemnifying Party, in the defense of any Third-Party Claim, shall consent to entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement. In the event that the Indemnified Party shall in good faith determine that the conduct of the defense of any Third-Party Claim subject to indemnification hereunder or any proposed settlement of any such claim by the Indemnifying Party might be expected to impair the ability of Cargill, the Mosaic Parties or their respective Affiliates to conduct their businesses or impair their respective reputations or business, or that the Indemnified Party may have available to it one or more defenses or counterclaims that are inconsistent with one or more of those that may be available to the Indemnifying Party in respect of such claim or any litigation relating thereto, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at all times to take over and assume control over the defense, settlement, negotiations or litigation relating to any such claim at the sole cost of the Indemnifying Party; that, if the Indemnified Party does so take over and assume control, the Indemnified Party shall not settle such claim or litigation without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. In the event that the Indemnifying Party does not accept the defense of any matter as above provided, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to defend against any such claim or demand, and shall be entitled to settle or agree to pay in full such claim or demand. In any event, Cargill and the Mosaic Parties shall reasonably cooperate in the defense of any Third-Party Claim subject to this Article VIII, and the records of each shall be made reasonably available to the other with respect to such defense, subject to reasonable restrictions for classified, privileged or confidential information and consistent with applicable Law and in accordance with the procedures established by such party.
Third-Party Claim
provided
provided
SECTION 8.5 If the indemnification provided for in this Article VIII shall for any reason be unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless any Cargill Indemnified Party or any Mosaic Indemnified Party in respect of any Losses, or any Action in respect thereof, other than to the extent that such indemnification is unavailable or insufficient due to a failure to provide prompt notice in accordance with Section 8.4(a), then each Indemnifying Party shall, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Losses or Action in respect thereof, in such proportion as shall be appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Mosaic Parties, on the one hand, and Cargill, on the other hand, with respect to the misrepresentation or breach or alleged misrepresentation or alleged breach that resulted in such Losses, or Action in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The Mosaic Parties and Cargill agree that it would not be just and equitable if the amount of contributions pursuant to this Section 8.5 were to be determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation, which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Party as a result of the Losses referred to above in this Section 8.5 shall be deemed to include, for purposes of this Section 8.5, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending any such Action or claim.
Contribution.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
SECTION 8.6 Other than in the case of claims based on fraud, bad faith or willful misconduct or the availability of equitable remedies, following the Closing, the remedies provided in this Article VIII shall be the sole and exclusive remedy available to any Person for any breach or inaccuracy of any representation, warranty or covenant or other agreement contained in this Agreement of any party. Any remedy provided in this Article VIII shall be without duplication of any remedy provided for in any of the other Transaction Documents.
Exclusive Remedy.
SECTION 8.7 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or at law or in equity, no Indemnified Party will, in any event, be entitled to indemnification or contribution from an Indemnifying Party for Losses arising out of, attributable to or resulting from, any incidental, indirect, consequential, special, exemplary or punitive damages (including damages for loss of business profits) however caused, under any theory of liability, including in contract or in tort, arising in any way under this Agreement (other than in the case of fraud, bad faith or willful misconduct or in the case of any such Losses payable to third parties, including any Governmental Authority or shareholder).
Limitations on Indemnifiable Losses.
SECTION 8.8 Each Indemnified Party shall use reasonable best efforts to recover all losses, costs, damages and expenses from the insurers of such Indemnified Party under applicable insurance policies so as to reduce the amount of Losses hereunder; that actual recovery of any insurance shall not be a condition to the applicable Indemnifying Party's obligation to make indemnification payments to such Indemnified Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, Losses shall be calculated after giving effect to any amounts recovered under insurance policies with respect to such Losses, net of any costs to recover such amounts. If the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates receives any amounts under applicable insurance policies for such Losses after an indemnification payment by the Indemnifying Party has been made for such Losses, then the Indemnified Party shall promptly reimburse the Indemnifying Party for such indemnification payment in an amount equal to the amount so received or realized by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates with respect to any such indemnification payment.
Insurance.
provided
SECTION 8.9 The foregoing shall not apply to indemnification with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed solely by the Tax Agreement.
Taxes.
SECTION 9.1 The obligations of each of the parties to effect the Closing is subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, but other than with respect to the condition set forth in Section 9.1(a), waiver by each of Mosaic and Cargill, of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of each Party.
(a) The Mosaic Shareholder Approval shall have been obtained;
Mosaic Shareholder Approval.
 
(b) . No Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction shall have enacted, issued, promulgated or entered any Law which is in effect and which prohibits consummation of the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering;
No Injunctions
(c) . The Registration Statement contemplated by Section 2.1(a) of the Registration Agreement shall have been filed with the SEC and shall be effective under the Securities Act (and not be the subject of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement or a proceeding initiated by the SEC seeking any such stop order), and shall include (or incorporate by reference) all, and shall not omit any, information, including financial information, necessary to effect the First Formation Offering in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the terms of the Registration Statement; , , that for purposes of determining if any date is a Closing Condition Date, (x) such Registration Statement may omit information customarily provided in a prospectus supplement for a "shelf takedown" offering (including the public offering price, the underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, the amount of proceeds, and other items dependent upon the offering price, delivery dates, the identities of the selling security holders and amounts of securities to be registered on their behalf, the plan of distribution and the underwriters)) and (y) if the Registration Statement is filed on Form S-1, such Registration Statement (A) need not be effective so long as at the time of such determination, either the SEC shall have elected not to review the Registration Statement or all material outstanding comments issued by the SEC in the course of its review shall have been adequately resolved (other than comments with respect to fiscal 2011 compensation disclosure added to the Registration Statement during a Compensation Dead Period) and (B) may omit information regarding fiscal 2011 compensation during a Compensation Dead Period.
Registration Statement
provided
however
(d) . The Form S-4 shall have been filed and shall be effective and the Form S-4 shall not be the subject of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Form S-4 or a proceeding initiated by the SEC seeking any such stop order;
Form S-4
(e) . The shares of M Holdings Common Stock to be issued in the Merger shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, and the M Holdings Common Stock to be issued upon the conversion of the M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Class B Common Stock to be issued in the Merger shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, in each case subject only to official notice of issuance;
NYSE Listing
(f) . Each of the Registration Agreement and the Tax Agreement shall be in full force and effect.
Other Transaction Documents
SECTION 9.2 The obligation of the Mosaic Parties to effect the Closing are subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, waiver by Mosaic of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Mosaic Parties.
(a) . The representations and warranties of Cargill set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to
Representations and Warranties
 
"materiality" or "Cargill Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein), in each case, as of the date of the Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case as of such specified date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "materiality" or "Cargill Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Cargill Material Adverse Effect;
(b) . Cargill shall have performed in all material respects its obligations, agreements and covenants required to be performed by it prior to or as of the Closing under this Agreement or any other Transaction Document;
Covenants
(c) . Cargill shall have furnished Mosaic with a certificate dated as of the Closing Date signed on its behalf by its Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer to the effect that the conditions set forth in clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 9.2 shall have been satisfied;
Officer's Certificate
(d) Stockholders of Cargill shall have agreed with Cargill to exchange, and/or shall have tendered into the Offer and not withdrawn, a sufficient number of shares of Cargill capital stock to allow Cargill to deliver to such stockholders, pursuant to the Split-off, all of the shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock (excluding the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) to be received by Cargill pursuant to the Merger in exchange for outstanding shares of Cargill common stock, all the conditions to such exchanges and/or the Offer shall have been satisfied or will be satisfied after consummation of the Merger, and Cargill shall have irrevocably confirmed to Mosaic that it will consummate the Split-off pursuant to such exchanges and/or the Offer on the Closing Date immediately following the Merger Effective Time;
Split-off.
(e) .Each Exchanging Cargill Stockholder who, to the knowledge of Cargill at the time of the Closing, is reasonably expected to be a Significant Stockholder immediately after the consummation of the Split-off shall have duly executed and delivered to Mosaic the Governance Agreement; and
Governance Agreement
(f) . There shall be no change in, revocation of, or amendment to the Private Letter Ruling or change in Law that could, in the reasonable judgment of counsel to Mosaic, affect the validity of the Private Letter Ruling in a manner adverse to Mosaic, the Mosaic Shareholders (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries), M Holdings or the holders of M Holdings Common Stock.
No Change in Private Letter Ruling or Law
SECTION 9.3 The obligation of Cargill to effect the Closing is subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, waiver by Cargill of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of Cargill.
(a) . (i) The representations and warranties of the Mosaic Parties set forth in Section 5.5(a) and Section 5.5(b) of this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects (except for any inaccuracy) as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that
Representations and Warranties
de minimis
 
such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case as of such specified date); (ii) the representations and warranties of the Mosaic Parties set forth in Section 5.11 shall be true and correct in all respects as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of each such date; and (iii) the other representations and warranties of the Mosaic Parties set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "materiality" or "Mosaic Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein), in each case, as of the date of the Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case as of such specified date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "materiality" or "Mosaic Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Mosaic Material Adverse Effect;
(b) . Each Mosaic Party shall have performed its obligations, agreements and covenants under Sections 7.1(a) (iii) and (iv) of this Agreement in all respects (except for any breach) and each Mosaic Party shall have performed in all material respects all of its other obligations, agreements and covenants required to be performed by it prior to or as of the Closing under this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents;
Covenants
de minimis
(c) Other than Cargill and its Affiliates, no Person or coordinating group (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.355-7(h)(4)) who actively participates in the management or operation of Mosaic (including as a director thereof) shall, to the knowledge of Mosaic (based on SEC filings), beneficially own, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (based on SEC filings);
No Managing Shareholder.
(d) . (i) Mosaic shall have furnished Cargill with a certificate dated as of the Closing Date signed on its behalf by its Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer to the effect that (x) the conditions set forth in (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 9.3 shall have been satisfied and (y) the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Closing is equal to the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number;
Officer's Certificate
(e) . There shall be no change in, revocation of, or amendment to the Private Letter Ruling or change in Law that could, in the reasonable judgment of counsel to Cargill, adversely affect the validity of the Private Letter Ruling;
No Change in Private Letter Ruling or Law
(f) . Mosaic shall have delivered the Mosaic Tax Certificate and Cargill shall have received the Bring Down Tax Opinion; and
Bring Down Tax Opinion
(g) Since the date of this Agreement, no Material Market Event (other than any Material Market Event in respect of which Cargill has previously waived its right to invoke this Section 9.3(g)) shall have occurred.
No Material Market Event.
SECTION 9.4 The parties agree and acknowledge that the parties' obligations pursuant to this Article IX shall be subject to, and without prejudice to, (i) the right of Cargill to delay the Closing Date or (ii) the right of Cargill or Mosaic to terminate this Agreement, in each case pursuant to the terms hereof.
Obligation to Close.
 
SECTION 10.1 This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Merger Effective Time (unless otherwise specifically stated below), whether before or after receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval (unless otherwise specifically stated below), as applicable:
Termination.
(a) by mutual written consent of Cargill and Mosaic;
(b) by Mosaic or Cargill, upon delivery by such party of written notice of termination to the other party:
(i) if a Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction shall have enacted, issued, promulgated or entered any Law which is in effect, which prohibits consummation of the Merger, the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange or any Formation Offering and shall have become final and nonappealable; or
(ii) if a vote of the Mosaic Shareholders shall have been taken at the Mosaic Shareholders Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the Mosaic Shareholder Approval shall not have been obtained at such meeting;
(c) by Mosaic, upon delivery by Mosaic of written notice of termination to Cargill:
(i) at any time following the completion of the Closing Period if (x) the Closing shall not have occurred, and (y) after completion of the Closing Period, Mosaic shall have given at least five (5) calendar day's prior written notice to Cargill of Mosaic's intention to terminate pursuant to this Section 10.1(c)(i);
(ii) at any time following the End Date if the Closing shall not have occurred;
(iii) if (x) Cargill shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would result in the failure of the conditions set forth in clauses (a) or (b) of Section 9.2 and (ii) is not cured, or cannot be cured, by Cargill within 30 calendar days following receipt of written notice of such breach or failure to perform from Mosaic (or if the End Date is less than 30 calendar days from notice by Mosaic (without giving effect to any extension), is not cured, or cannot be cured, by Cargill by the End Date (without giving effect to any extension) or (y) the MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement is not in full force and effect as of the End Date (without giving effect to any extension)); or
(iv) if Cargill fails to deliver a Cargill Waiver Notice prior to the expiration of the Requisite Response Period with respect to any Material Market Event;
 
(d) by Cargill, upon delivery by Cargill of written notice of termination to Mosaic:
(i) if any Mosaic Party shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would result in the failure of the conditions set forth in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Section 9.3 and (ii) is not cured, or cannot be cured, by such Mosaic Party within 30 calendar days following receipt of written notice of such breach or failure to perform from Cargill (or if the End Date (without giving effect to any extension) is less than 30 calendar days from notice by Cargill, is not cured, or cannot be cured, by such Mosaic Party by the End Date (without giving effect to any extension));
(ii) at any time prior to the Mosaic Shareholder Approval being obtained, if the Mosaic Special Committee or the Board of Directors of Mosaic shall have made a Change in the Mosaic Recommendation;
(iii) at any time following the End Date if the Closing shall not have occurred; or
(iv) if Cargill's Board of Directors concludes, in its sole discretion, that the Transactions are not in the best interest of Cargill and that then-present market conditions are not consistent with achieving Cargill's business objectives.
SECTION 10.2
Effect of Termination.
(a) Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become null and void, and there shall be no liability or other obligation on the part of Cargill or the Mosaic Parties or their respective Subsidiaries, or their respective Affiliates, stockholders or shareholders, controlling persons or Representatives; , , that this Section 10.2, Section 7.5, Section 7.6 and Article XI shall survive termination of this Agreement in accordance with their terms; and , that subject to Section 11.13(b), the forgoing shall not relieve any party from any liability for any willful and material breach by such party of any of its representatives, warranties, covenants or obligations under this Agreement prior to such termination. For the purposes of this Agreement, "willful and material breach" shall mean a material breach that is a consequence of an act undertaken by the breaching party with the knowledge (actual or constructive) that the taking of such action would, or would be reasonably be expected to, cause a breach of this Agreement.
provided
however
provided
further
(b) In the event that this Agreement is terminated:
(A) by Mosaic pursuant to Section 10.1(c)(i), so long as each day from the completion of the Closing Period through and including the date of delivery by Mosaic of the notice referred to in Section 10.1(c)(i)(y) is a Closing Condition Date (without giving effect to the provision "prior to the completion of the Closing Period" in the definition thereof), and no Mosaic Underwriting Failure shall have occurred during the Closing Period;
(B) by Mosaic pursuant to Section 10.1(c)(iii), unless (x) Cargill is then entitled to terminate this Agreement pursuant to clauses (i) or (ii) of Section
 
10.1(b) or a Mosaic Underwriting Failure shall have occurred during the Closing Period or (y) any Mosaic Party shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations set forth in this Agreement, and such breach or failure to perform would result in the failure of the conditions set forth in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Section 9.3 if the Closing were to be then scheduled;
(C) by Cargill pursuant to Section 10.1(d)(iii) at a time when (x) Mosaic would be permitted to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1(c)(i) so long as each date from the completion of the Closing Period through the date of termination by Cargill was a Closing Condition Date (without giving effect to the provision "prior to the completion of the Closing Period" in the definition thereof) and no Mosaic Underwriting Failure shall have occurred during the Closing Period or (y) Mosaic would be permitted to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1(c)(iii), unless any Mosaic Party shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations set forth in this Agreement and such breach or failure to perform would result in the failure of the conditions set forth in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Section 9.3 if the Closing were to be then scheduled; or
(D) by Cargill pursuant to Section 10.1(d)(iv);
then:
(i) promptly after a request therefor from Mosaic, Cargill shall reimburse Mosaic for all customary and reasonable documented, out-of pocket fees and expenses incurred by Mosaic in connection with the negotiation by Mosaic of the terms of the Transactions and the negotiation and execution by Mosaic of the Transaction Documents and the performance by Mosaic of its obligations thereunder required to be performed prior to termination, up to $15 million, in the aggregate; and
(ii) Cargill shall pay to Mosaic, for the benefit of, and for payment to, the holders of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) as set forth below, a termination fee of $200 million (the ""); , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, no Termination Fee shall be payable in the event that, in connection with the termination of this Agreement, Cargill enters into a definitive agreement with respect to an Alternative Proposal (that did not result from a material violation by Cargill of its obligations under Sections 7.8(b) or 7.8(c)) under the terms of which the holders of all of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) will be provided with the opportunity to receive consideration for all of their shares of Mosaic Common Stock that is no less favorable on a per share basis than the consideration to be received by Cargill and its Subsidiaries for their shares of Mosaic Common Stock and at substantially the same time as, or within no more than 30 Business Days after, such consideration is to be received by Cargill and its Subsidiaries; and
Termination Fee
provided
however
(iii) if Cargill shall fail to pay the Termination Fee if and when due under this Section 10.2(b), Cargill shall reimburse Mosaic for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses actually incurred by Mosaic (including the reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses of counsel) to collect the Termination Fee under this Section 10.2(b).
 
(c) Any reimbursement or Termination Fee payment pursuant to Section 10.2(b) shall be payable by wire transfer of same day funds. Within thirty (30) Business Days of Mosaic's receipt of the Termination Fee, Mosaic shall disburse the Termination Fee (on a pro rata basis based on share ownership) to the holders of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) as of a record date determined by Mosaic. Mosaic shall serve as disbursing and withholding agent with respect to the Termination Fee. Further, Mosaic shall be solely responsible for determining and effecting all relevant tax withholding and reporting as to the holders of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) and timely remittance and reporting of the Termination Fee and any withholdings. Mosaic shall indemnify and hold Cargill harmless against any and all third-party tax and/or legal claims, including with respect to withholding and/or information return reporting obligations, associated with effecting payment in this manner.
(d) In the event this Agreement is terminated under circumstances in which Cargill shall be required to pay a Termination fee pursuant to Section 10.2(b) then, prior to the 6-month anniversary of the date of such termination, Cargill shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to not, Transfer shares of Mosaic Common Stock constituting thirty five (35%) or more of the then outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock to any Person or group (as defined under Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act) of Persons, unless under the terms of the definitive documentation with respect to such transaction or transactions, the holders of all of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) will be provided with the opportunity: (i) to Transfer shares of Mosaic Common Stock, in the aggregate, in the same proportion to the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock to be Transferred by Cargill and/or its Subsidiaries and (ii) to receive consideration that is no less favorable on a per share basis than the consideration to be received by Cargill and its Subsidiaries for their shares of Mosaic Common Stock in such transaction or transactions.
SECTION 11.1 This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto, and the other Transaction Documents shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
SECTION 11.2 This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties in separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts transmitted by telecopy, telefax or electronic transmission shall be considered original executed counterparts for purposes of this Section 11.2; that receipt of copies of such counterparts is confirmed.
Counterparts.
provided
 
SECTION 11.3
Expenses.
(a) Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Documents and subject to any reimbursement obligation in Section 11.3(b), whether the Transactions are consummated or not, all legal and other costs and expenses to the extent incurred in connection with, arising out of, or relating to this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents shall be paid by the Person incurring such costs and expenses.
(b) In the event that the First Formation Offering is effected in accordance with the Registration Agreement, promptly after a request therefor from Mosaic or M Holdings, Cargill shall reimburse M Holdings for all customary and reasonable documented, out-of pocket fees and expenses incurred by Mosaic and M Holdings in connection with the negotiation by Mosaic of the terms of the Transactions and the negotiation and execution by Mosaic of the Transaction Documents and the performance by Mosaic of its obligations thereunder required to be performed through (and including) consummation of the First Formation Offering, up to $15 million in the aggregate.
SECTION 11.4 All notices, requests, certificates and other communications to any party hereunder (including the MAC Trusts) shall be in writing and given to each other party hereto (including the MAC Trusts) and shall be deemed given or made (i) as of the date delivered, if delivered personally, (ii) on the date the delivering party receives confirmation, if delivered by facsimile or electronic mail (iii) three Business Days after being mailed by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested); or (iv) one Business Day after being sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery), to the parties (or the MAC Trusts, as applicable) at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 11.4):
Notices.
 
 
 
SECTION 11.5 No failure or delay by Cargill or any Mosaic Party in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of rights, nor shall any single or partial exercise of such rights preclude any other or further exercise of such rights or the exercise of any other right hereunder. Any agreement on the part of a party hereto to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party.
Waivers.
SECTION 11.6 This Agreement may be amended or supplemented in any and all respects, whether before or after receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval, by written agreement of the parties; , , that following the receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval, any amendment or change to the provisions of this Agreement which by Law would require further approval by the Mosaic Shareholders shall be subject to such further approval. No amendment to or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding upon any party unless in writing and signed by all parties. No amendment may be made that adversely affects the rights of the MAC Trusts under Sections 4.1(c), 4.1(d), 5.7, 7.2(e), 7.2(f), 7.3(b)-(d), 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 11.9 or 11.13(d) of this Agreement or under this and the next sentence of this Section 11.6, without the approval of the MAC Trusts. The MAC Trusts shall be furnished with copies of each amendment to this Agreement immediately following the execution thereof by the parties hereto.
Amendments.
provided
however
SECTION 11.7 Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Any purported assignment not permitted under this Section 11.7 shall be null and void.
Assignment.
SECTION 11.8 The terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
SECTION 11.9 This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties and their successors and permitted assigns (and with respect to Sections 4.1(c), 4.1(d), 5.7, 7.2(e), 7.2(f), 7.3(b)-(d), 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 11.9 or 11.13(d), the MAC Trusts) and nothing herein express or implied shall give or shall be construed to confer any legal or equitable rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and such successors and permitted assigns (and with respect to Sections 4.1(c), 4.1(d), 5.7, 7.2(e), 7.3(b)-(d), 7.2(f), 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 11.9 or 11.13(d), the MAC Trusts).
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
SECTION 11.10 The Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent as if the same had been set forth verbatim herein.
Exhibits and Schedules.
SECTION 11.11 THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF DELAWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
SECTION 11.12
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial.
(a) All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, in the event that such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over such action or proceeding, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware, and the parties to this Agreement irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and, in the case of appeals, appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. The consents to jurisdiction set forth in this paragraph shall not constitute general consents to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this paragraph and shall not be deemed to confer rights on any Person other than the parties hereto. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each of the parties to this Agreement consents to service being made through the notice procedures set forth in Section 11.4 and agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail (return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid) to the respective addresses of the parties set forth in Section 11.4 shall be effective service of process for any suit or proceeding in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
(b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
SECTION 11.13
Remedies; Specific Performance.
(a) The parties hereto agree that Cargill would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of any of the Mosaic Parties under this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, the Mosaic Parties agree that, Cargill shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by any of the Mosaic Parties of its obligations under this Agreement, and the Mosaic Parties shall not object to the granting of specific performance of the terms and provisions of this Agreement or other equitable relief on the basis that there exists an adequate remedy at law, and the Mosaic Parties further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such injunctive or other equitable relief, this being in addition to any other remedy to which Cargill is entitled at Law or in equity. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a court shall require that Cargill prove that it is entitled to specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance of this Agreement by any Mosaic Party, Cargill's entitlement to such specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief shall be governed by the preponderance of the evidence standard (and not the clear and convincing evidence or any other higher standard) for the burden of persuasion with respect to Cargill's entitlement to such relief.
(b) Each of the Mosaic Parties agrees, that, in the event that the Closing shall not have occurred, except as otherwise provided in Section 11.13(c), the remedies provided for in Sections 10.1 and 10.2(b) (and any actions the Mosaic Parties may take to enforce such
 
remedies) shall be the sole and exclusive remedies of the Mosaic Parties and their respective Representatives for, and in no event may any of the Mosaic Parties or any of their respective Representatives seek to recover any other damages or seek any other legal or equitable remedy against Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Representatives with respect to, any loss, claim, cause of action or damages relating to, or arising out of, or resulting from, any failure of the Merger, the Split-off, the Debt Exchanges or the Formation Offerings to occur or any inaccuracy, breach, non-performance, failure or termination of or under this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Documents.
(c) The parties hereto agree the Mosaic Parties would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of Cargill under Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, Cargill agrees that the Mosaic Parties shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by Cargill of its obligations under Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement, and Cargill shall not object to the granting of specific performance or other equitable relief to enforce the terms and provisions of Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement against Cargill on the basis that there exists an adequate remedy at law, and Cargill further agrees to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such injunctive or other equitable relief. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a court shall require that any of the Mosaic Parties prove that it is entitled to specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by Cargill of Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement, the Mosaic Parties' entitlement to such specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief shall be governed by the preponderance of the evidence standard (and not the clear and convincing evidence or any other higher standard) for the burden of persuasion with respect to the Mosaic Parties' entitlement to such relief. The parties acknowledge that, except as set forth in this Section 11.13(c), the Mosaic Parties shall not be entitled to specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief to prevent breaches of this Agreement by Cargill or to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(d) The MAC Trusts agree that the Mosaic Parties and Cargill would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of the MAC Trusts under Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, the MAC Trusts agree that the Mosaic Parties and Cargill shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by any of the MAC Trusts of its obligations under Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement, and the MAC Trusts shall not object to the granting of specific performance or other equitable relief to enforce the terms and provisions of Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement against the MAC Trusts on the basis that there exists an adequate remedy at law, and the MAC Trusts further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such injunctive or other equitable relief. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a court shall require that any of the Mosaic Parties or Cargill prove that it is entitled to specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by the MAC Trusts of Sections 7.5 or 7.6 of this Agreement, the Mosaic Parties' and Cargill's entitlement to such specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief shall be governed by the preponderance of the evidence standard (and not the clear and convincing evidence or any other higher standard) for the burden of persuasion with respect to the Mosaic Parties' and Cargill's entitlement to such relief.
 
SECTION 11.14 In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; , , that the consummation of the Merger is not severable from the Split-off, the Initial Debt Exchange and the First Formation Offering and the consummation of the Split-off is not severable from the Merger, the Initial Debt Exchange and the First Formation Offering. The parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability.
provided
however
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation") is [The Mosaic Holding Company].
The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent of the Corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law.
The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is one hundred (100) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute and except as provided herein or in the bylaws, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") shall have the power to adopt, amend, repeal or otherwise alter the bylaws without any action on the part of the stockholders in accordance with the bylaws; , that any bylaws made by the Board of Directors and any and all powers conferred by any of said bylaws may be amended, altered or repealed by the stockholders.
provided
however,
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for
acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Each person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, and each person who serves or served at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another enterprise, shall be indemnified by the Corporation in accordance with, and to the fullest extent authorized by, the General Corporation Law.
If the General Corporation Law is hereafter amended to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of a director, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law as so amended.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VI by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
The election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the Corporation shall so provide.
The number of directors to constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be established as provided in the bylaws.
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Amended & Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
EXHIBIT B
GNS II (U.S.) Corp., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), :
DGCL
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY
That the name of this corporation is GNS II (U.S.) Corp., and that this corporation was originally incorporated pursuant to the DGCL on March 25, 2004.
1)
That the Board of Directors duly adopted resolutions proposing to amend and restate the certificate of incorporation of this corporation, declaring said amendment and restatement to be advisable and in the best interests of this corporation and its stockholders, and authorizing the appropriate officers of this corporation to solicit the consent of the stockholders therefor, which resolution setting forth the proposed amendment and restatement is as follows:
2)
, that the certificate of incorporation of this corporation be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows (the ""):
RESOLVED
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
 
 
The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "") is GNS II (U.S.) CORP.
Corporation
The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, 19801, and the name of the registered agent of the Corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").
General Corporation Law
. The total number of shares of capital stock that the Corporation has authority to issue is [] of which:
1.
Authorized Stock
(A) 
(1) [] shares shall be shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "");
Common Stock
(2) [] shares shall be shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which (i) [] shall be designated Class A Common Stock, Series A-1 (the ""); (ii) [] shall be designated Class A Common Stock, Series A-2 (the ""); (iii) [] shall be designated Class A Common Stock, Series A-3 (the ""); and (iv) [] shall be designated Class A Common Stock, Series A-4 (the "");
Series A-1 Common Stock
Series A-2 Common Stock
Series A-3 Common Stock
Series A-4 Common Stock
(3) [] shares shall be shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which (i) [] shall be designated Class B Common Stock, Series B-1 (the ""); (ii) [] shall be designated Class B Common Stock, Series B-2 (the ""); and (iii) [] shall be designated Class B Common Stock, Series B-3 (the ""); and
Series B-1 Common Stock
Series B-2 Common Stock
Series B-3 Common Stock
(4) 15,000,000 shares shall be shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "").
Preferred Stock
The Series A-1 Common Stock, the Series A-2 Common Stock, the Series A-3 Common Stock and the Series A-4 Common Stock are referred to collectively as the "". The Series B-1 Common Stock, the Series B-2 Common Stock and the Series B-3 Common Stock are referred to collectively as the "". The Common Stock, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock are referred to collectively as the "".
(B)
Class A Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Company Common Stock
Effective upon the filing of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the ""), each share of common stock of the Corporation, $[] par value per share, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (the "") shall automatically be reclassified into and become [] fully paid, non-assessable shares of Common Stock, without any further action by the holder of such shares of Old Common Stock. Each certificate that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of Common Stock (each, an "") shall thereafter represent that number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Old Common Stock represented by the Old Certificate shall have been reclassified.
(C)
Effective Time
Old Common Stock
Old Certificate
 
. Except as expressly provided for in this Article IV and in Article IX, the shares of each class and series of Company Common Stock shall have the same powers, rights and privileges and rank equally, share ratably and be identical in all respects as to all matters. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock from time to time outstanding, stockholders of the Corporation shall not have any preemptive rights to subscribe for, purchase or receive any part of any new or additional issue of stock of the Corporation and no stockholder will be entitled to cumulate votes at any election of directors.
(A) General
 
. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock from time to time outstanding, and except as expressly provided for in this Article IV, holders of shares of Company Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends and other distributions in cash, securities or property as may be declared thereon by the Board of Directors from time to time out of assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor; , that no dividend or other distribution may be declared or paid in respect of any share of any class or series of Company Common Stock unless a dividend or other distribution, payable in the same amount, ratio, form and manner, is simultaneously declared or paid, as the case may be, in respect of all shares of each class and series of Company Common Stock, without preference or priority of any kind, except that, whenever a dividend or other distribution is paid in shares of Company Common Stock, (i) only shares of Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (ii) only shares of Series A-1 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series A-1 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (iii) only shares of Series A-2 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series A-2 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (iv) only shares of Series A-3 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series A-3 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (v) only shares of Series A-4 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series A-4 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (vi) only shares of Series B-1 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series B-1 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, (vii) only shares of Series B-2 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series B-2 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, and (viii) only shares of Series B-3 Common Stock shall be paid in respect of the shares of Series B-3 Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor.
(B) Dividends and Other Distributions
provided, however
. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after the payment in full of all amounts to which the holders of each series, if any, of the then outstanding Preferred Stock shall be entitled, the remaining assets of the Corporation to be distributed to the holders of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be distributed ratably, on a share for share basis, among the holders of the shares of all classes and series of Company Common Stock, together with the holders of the shares of any class of stock ranking on a parity with the Company Common Stock in respect of such distribution. For purposes of this paragraph, unless otherwise provided with respect to any then outstanding series of Preferred Stock, the voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with one or more other corporations (whether or not the Corporation is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger) shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, either voluntary or involuntary.
(C) Liquidation
.
(D) Voting
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Article IV and except as required by law, holders of shares of each class and series of Company Common Stock shall be entitled to vote, and shall vote together as one class, on all matters to be voted on by the stockholders of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided in this Article IV and except as required by law, (x)
 
with respect to all matters other than the election of directors, each holder of shares of Company Common Stock shall be entitled to one (1) vote in person or by proxy for each share of Company Common Stock held of record by such holder, and (y) with respect to the election of directors, each holder of shares of Common Stock and/or Class A Common Stock shall be entitled to one (1) vote in person or by proxy for each share of Common Stock and/or Class A Common Stock held of record by such holder, and each holder of shares of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to ten (10) votes in person or by proxy for each share of Class B Common Stock held of record by such holder.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, for so long as any shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock remain outstanding, without the Requisite Vote or Requisite Votes, as applicable (and any other vote of stockholders required by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or applicable law):
(i) this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be amended, altered or repealed (including by merger, consolidation or otherwise) in a manner that would alter or change the powers, preferences, or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof), or the qualifications, limitations or restrictions with respect thereto, so as to affect them adversely;
(ii) no series of Preferred Stock shall be established by the Board of Directors, and no shares of any series of Preferred Stock shall be issued by the Corporation (by merger, consolidation or otherwise), if the terms of such series of Preferred Stock would be violated or breached by or as a result of the conversion of the shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof), or the Transfer of any such shares, in accordance with the terms of this Article IV;
(iii) no shares of Class A Common Stock (or any series thereof) or Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof) shall be issued by the Corporation (including by merger, consolidation or otherwise), other than pursuant to the Merger and other than the issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock upon the conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article IV or upon a dividend or other distribution paid by the Corporation in shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article IV;
(iv) no reorganization, consolidation, combination or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or other entity in which shares of Class A Common Stock (or any series thereof) and/or Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof) are converted into (or entitled to receive with respect thereto) shares of stock or other securities or property (including cash) shall be permitted, unless, in such reorganization, consolidation, combination or merger, each holder of a share of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive with respect to each such share the same kind and amount of shares of stock or other securities or property (including cash) as any holder of a share of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive for a share of Common Stock;
(v) the Corporation (including its Board of Directors) shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to, make, agree to, approve or recommend any tender or
 
exchange offer for any shares of Company Common Stock, unless such tender or exchange offer is open to all holders of shares of all series and classes of Company Common Stock and the consideration paid to any such holder for shares of Company Common Stock tendered into such tender or exchange offer is the highest consideration paid to any other holder for shares of Company Common Stock tendered into such tender or exchange offer;
(vi) the Corporation shall not subdivide (by any stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) or combine (by reverse stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) the outstanding shares of Common Stock, Class A Common Stock (or any series thereof) or Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof), unless the outstanding shares of the other such classes and series of Company Common Stock shall be proportionately subdivided or combined in the same manner, in each case so that the numbers of shares of Common Stock, Class A Common Stock (and each series thereof) and Class B Common Stock (and each series thereof) outstanding immediately following such subdivision or combination shall bear the same relationship to one another as did the numbers of shares of Common Stock, Class A Common Stock (and each series thereof) and Class B Common Stock (and each series thereof) outstanding immediately prior to such subdivision or combination; and
(vii) this Section 2(D)(2) and Section 2(D)(3) of this Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be amended, altered or repealed (including by merger, consolidation or otherwise), and no provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation that is inconsistent with this Section 2(D)(2) or Section 2(D)(3) of this Article IV shall be adopted (including by merger, consolidation or otherwise); , that no vote otherwise required by this Section 2(D)(2) shall be required for the implementation by the Company of a rights plan, including the distribution of rights to all holders of the Company Common Stock, the designation of a series of preferred stock in connection therewith, and all other actions contemplated by any such rights plan and the operation thereof, so long as all shares of all holders of shares of Company Common Stock are treated identically pursuant to such distribution and, other than a holder who is an "Acquiring Person" and certain transferees of any such "Acquiring Person" under such rights plan, the operation of such rights plan.
provided
however
(3) "" and "," as applicable, means, in addition to any other or different vote required by applicable law, for purposes of any action described in clauses (i) through (vii) of Section 2(D)(2) of this Article IV, (1) the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the shares of all series of Class A Common Stock and all series of Class B Common Stock outstanding as of the record date therefor, voting together as a single class and, (2) if any such action would affect a class or series of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, less favorably, or more adversely, than it does any other class or series of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock, the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power outstanding as of the record date therefor of the shares of the class or series less favorably or more adversely affected by such action, voting as a separate class.
Requisite Vote
Requisite Votes
 
 
(A) Transfer Restrictions of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock.
(1) Except as otherwise set forth in Section 3(A)(2), Section 3(A)(3) or Section 3(A)(4) of this Article IV, (x) shares of Class A Common Stock may not be Transferred by or at the request of any record or beneficial owner of such shares of Class A Common Stock, and (y) shares of Class B Common Stock may not be Transferred by or at the request of any record or beneficial owner of such shares of Class B Common Stock until the Lock-Up Expiration Date applicable to such shares of Class B Common Stock shall have occurred.
(2) Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV shall not prohibit a record or beneficial owner of shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock from Transferring such shares in a Permitted Transfer, that (i) any record or beneficial owner of shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock that seeks to Transfer one or more of such shares pursuant to this Section 3(A)(2) must, upon the Corporation's request, provide to the Corporation affidavits or other proof reasonably acceptable to the Corporation that any such Transfer qualifies as a Permitted Transfer, and any good faith determination of the Corporation that a particular Transfer so qualifies or does not so qualify shall be conclusive and binding; and (ii) if a record or beneficial owner of shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock makes any Transfer of one or more such shares in a Permitted Transfer, each share of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock so Transferred shall continue to be bound by the terms of this Article IV, including the restrictions on Transfer set forth in this Article IV.
provided
(3) Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV shall not prohibit a record or beneficial owner of shares of Class A Common Stock from Transferring such shares pursuant to a Qualified Transfer.
(4) (a) At any time or from time to time on or prior to the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof designated thereby) may, in its sole discretion, (x) waive or otherwise remove the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV with respect to all or any number of the shares of Series A-4 Common Stock, on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (or such committee) in its sole discretion and (y) waive or otherwise remove the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV (on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (or such committee) in its sole discretion) to allow any of the MAC Trusts to Transfer all or any number of the shares of Class A Common Stock held by it so long as such Transfer will occur on or prior to the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date.
(b) At any time or from time to time after the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof designated thereby) may, in its sole discretion, waive or otherwise remove the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV, on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (or such committee) in its sole discretion, with respect to (w) all or any number of the shares of Series A-1 Common Stock and Series B-1 Common Stock (such shares, the ""), (x) all or any number of the shares of Series A-2 Common Stock and Series B-2 Common Stock (such shares, the ""), or (y) all or any number of the shares of Series A-3 Common Stock and Series B-3
Combined Series 1 Stock
Combined Series 2 Stock
 
Common Stock (such shares, the "" and each of the Combined Series 1 Stock, Combined Series 2 Stock and Combined Series 3 Stock is referred to individually as a ""); , , that, except in the case of a waiver or removal of the restrictions on Transfer if required to permit Transfers pursuant to Section 2.02(b)(vi) of the Governance Agreement, if the Board of Directors (or such committee) waives or otherwise removes the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV pursuant to this Section 3(A)(4)(b) with respect to less than all of the outstanding shares of a Combined Series of Stock, the number of shares of such Combined Series of Stock of each holder in respect of which the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV shall be waived or otherwise removed shall be equal to the result obtained by multiplying (i) the number of shares of such Combined Series of Stock held by such holder as of a record date determined by the Board of Directors (or such committee) by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of outstanding shares of such Combined Series of Stock as of such record date in respect of which the Board of Directors (or such committee) is waiving or otherwise removing the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV and the denominator of which shall be the number of outstanding shares of such Combined Series of Stock as of such record date, rounded down to the nearest whole share. In the event that the Board of Directors (or such committee) waives or otherwise removes the restrictions set forth in Section 3(A)(1) of this Article IV, pursuant to this Section 3(A)(4)(b) with respect to less than all of the shares of any Combined Series of Stock held by any holder, such waiver or removal of restrictions shall apply first to such holder's shares of Class A Common Stock of the Combined Series of Stock and second to such holder's shares of Class B Common Stock of such Combined Series of Stock.
Combined Series 3 Stock,
Combined Series of Stock
provided
however
(B) Conversion of Class A Common Stock.
(1) . Each share of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock and Series A-3 Common Stock shall be converted into shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth below in this Section 3(B)(1). Any conversion effected in accordance with this Section 3(B)(1) (other than paragraph (d) of this Section 3(B)(1)) shall be effective upon the applicable Conversion Time whether or not certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation.
Series A-1 Common Stock; Series A-2 Common Stock; Series A-3 Common Stock
(a) . (i) Each share of Series A-1 Common Stock outstanding on the First Lock-up Release Date shall be converted, immediately prior to the close of business on such date, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock; (ii) each share of Series A-2 Common Stock outstanding on the Second Lock-up Release Date shall be converted, immediately prior to the close of business on such date, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock; and (iii) each share of Series A-3 Common Stock outstanding on the Third Lock-up Release Date shall be converted, immediately prior to the close of business on such date, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock.
Conversion Upon Lock-up Release Date
 
(b) . Each share of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock and Series A-3 Common Stock shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock upon the Transfer of such share pursuant to a Released Share Offering in accordance with the Registration Agreement.
Conversion in Connection with a Released Share Offering
(c) .
Conversion by the Board
(i) At any time or from time to time on or prior to the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof designated thereby) may, in its sole discretion, convert all or any number of the shares of any series of Class A Common Stock (other than Series A-4 Common Stock) held by any MAC Trust, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, on a share-for-share basis, into fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock (at such time or times and on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (or such committee) in its sole discretion) so long as (x) such conversion will occur and is conditioned upon the Transfer of all such shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Structured Formation Offering, Market Sale or Private Sale, (y) such conversion and Transfer will occur on or prior to the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date and (z) the shares of Class A Common Stock that are to be converted pursuant to this clause (i) at any one time shall consist of an equal number of shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock and Series A-3 Common Stock then held by such MAC Trust.
(ii) At any time or from time to time after the later of the Class B Conversion Approval and the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof designated thereby) may, in its sole discretion, convert all or any number of the shares of any series of Class A Common Stock automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, on a share-for-share basis, into fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock (at such time or times and on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (or such committee) in its sole discretion); , , that if the Board of Directors (or such committee) elects to convert less than all of the outstanding shares of any series of Class A Common Stock at any time pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(c)(ii), the number of shares of such series of Class A Common Stock of each holder that shall be converted shall be equal to the result obtained by multiplying (x) the number of shares of such series of Class A Common Stock held by such holder as of a record date determined by the Board of Directors (or such committee) by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of outstanding shares of such series of Class A Common Stock as of such record date being converted by the Board of Directors (or any such committee), and the denominator of which shall be the number of outstanding shares of such series of Class A Common Stock as of such record date, rounded down to the nearest whole share.
provided
however
(d) . In the event an estate of a person who shall have died after the Execution Date is a holder of shares of Class A Common Stock or in the event a grantor, settlor or beneficiary of a trust that holds shares of Class A Common Stock shall have died after the Execution Date, such estate or trust may, without payment of additional
Death Conversion
 
consideration, convert any shares of Class A Common Stock held by such trust or estate, on a share-for-share basis, into fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock in connection with (a) the Transfer of such shares of Common Stock so long as the proceeds of such Transfer are to be used (or the proceeds of a prior Permitted Transfer (made pursuant to clause (B) of such definition) of shares of Class B Common Stock that were previously converted into such shares of Class A Common Stock were used) to pay estate taxes and expenses payable by reason of the death of such deceased person or the death of the grantor or settlor of such trust or any one or more beneficiaries of such trust (as applicable), and (b) the Transfer of such shares of Common Stock after the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date so long as (x) the proceeds of such Transfer are to be used to pay estate taxes, debts, obligations and expenses payable by reason of the death of such deceased person or the death of the grantor or settlor of such trust or any one or more beneficiaries of such trust (as applicable) or (y) such Transfer is made in connection with a foreclosure on shares of Class A Common Stock that were pledged pursuant to a Permitted Transfer. In order for a trust or estate to convert shares of Class A Common Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(d), such trust or estate shall surrender such the certificate or certificates for such shares (or, if such trust or estate alleges that such certificate or certificates has been lost, stolen or destroyed, such trust or estate shall provide the Corporation with a lost certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the Corporation to indemnify the Corporation and the transfer agent (if the Corporation does not serve as its own transfer agent) at the office of the transfer agent for the Class A Common Stock (or at the principal office of the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent) and if requested by the Corporation or the transfer agent (if applicable), the posting of a surety bond in customary amount and upon customary terms, against any claim that may be made against the Corporation and/or the transfer agent on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate or certificates), at the office of the transfer agent for the Class A Common Stock (or at the principal office of the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent), together with written notice (x) stating that such trust or estate elects to convert all or a number of shares of Class A Common Stock represented by such certificate or certificates (if any) pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(d) and (y) presenting facts indicating that such conversion complies with this Section 3(B)(1)(d). Such notice shall also state such trust or estate's name or the names of the nominees in which such trust or estate wishes such shares of Common Stock, and the certificate or certificates (if any) for such shares of Common Stock, to be issued. If required by the Corporation, certificates surrendered for conversion shall be endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by the registered holder or his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing. In addition, the trust or estate seeking to convert shares of Class A Common Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(d) shall (i) provide to the Corporation affidavits stating that such conversion and the related Transfer of shares of Common Stock is in compliance with any agreement such trust or estate may have with Cargill and (ii) upon the Corporation's request, provide to the Corporation affidavits or other proof reasonably acceptable to the Corporation that such conversion complies with this Section 3(B)(1)(d), and any good faith determination of the Corporation that a particular conversion so qualifies or does not so qualify shall be conclusive and binding. The close of business on the date of receipt by the transfer agent (or by the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent) of the certificates
 
(or lost certificate affidavit and agreement), notice and, if requested in accordance with the foregoing, any surety bond, affidavits or other proof, shall be the Conversion Time and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Class A Common Stock shall be deemed outstanding of record as of such time. The Corporation shall, as soon as practicable after any such surrender following such Conversion Time, issue and deliver to the applicable trust or estate or to its nominees, a certificate or certificates (if any) for the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Class A Common Stock were converted pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(d) and a certificate representing the shares of Class A Common Stock represented by a surrendered certificate that were not converted into shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Section 3(B)(1)(d).
(2) . The shares of Series A-4 Common Stock shall be converted into shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 3(B)(2). Any conversion effected in accordance with this Section 3(B)(2) shall be effective upon the applicable Conversion Time whether or not certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation.
Series A-4 Common Stock
(a) . Prior to the second (2
Conversion in Connection with Certain Sales
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, each share of Series A-4 Common Stock shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock upon the Transfer of that share pursuant to a Structured Formation Offering, Market Sale or Private Sale, as applicable.
(b) . Immediately after the close of business on the second (2
Other Conversion
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date, each then outstanding share of Series A-4 Common Stock shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one share of Common Stock.
(3) . In the event that any Person becomes the record and beneficial owner of 90% or more of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock as a result of a tender or exchange offer approved or recommended by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or the exercise of any "top-up" option granted by the Company in connection with any such tender or exchange offer), each outstanding share of Class A Common Stock, whether or not held by such Person, shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock.
90% Owner After Tender Offer
Each share of Class B Common Stock shall be converted into shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-3 Common Stock or Common Stock, as applicable, on the terms and conditions set forth below in this Section 3(C). Any conversion effected in accordance with this Section 3(C) shall be effective upon the applicable Conversion Time whether or not certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation.
(C) Conversion of Class B Common Stock.
(1) . If the Corporation's Board of Directors determines to submit to the stockholders of the Corporation, at a duly called meeting of stockholders, a proposal to effect a conversion of the shares of Class B Common Stock, and such
Conversion upon Shareholder Approval
 
proposal is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Common Stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy at the meeting, voting together as a single class (any such approval, the ""), all of the shares of Class B Common Stock then outstanding shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holders thereof, as follows:
Class B Conversion Approval
(a) If the Class B Conversion Approval occurs prior to the First Lock-up Release Date, then immediately prior to the close of business on the date of such Class B Conversion Approval (i) each share of Series B-1 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-1 Common Stock, (ii) each share of Series B-2 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-2 Common Stock, and (iii) each share of Series B-3 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-3 Common Stock;
(b) If the Class B Conversion Approval occurs on or after the First Lock-up Release Date but prior to the Second Lock-up Release Date, then immediately prior to the close of business on the date of such Class B Conversion Approval, (i) each share of Series B-1 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock, (ii) each share of Series B-2 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-2 Common Stock, and (iii) each share of Series B-3 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-3 Common Stock;
(c) If the Class B Conversion Approval occurs on or after the Second Lock-up Release Date but before the Third Lock-up Release Date, then immediately prior to the close of business on the date of such Class B Conversion Approval, (i) each share of Series B-1 Common Stock and Series B-2 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock, and (ii) each share of Series B-3 Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Series A-3 Common Stock; and
(d) If the Class B Conversion Approval occurs on or after the Third-Lock-up Release Date, then immediately prior to the close of business on the date of such Class B Conversion Approval, each share of Class B Common Stock shall be converted into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock.
(2) . In the event that any Person becomes the record and beneficial owner of 90% or more of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock as a result of a tender or exchange offer approved or recommended by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or the exercise of any "top-up" option granted by the Company in connection with any such tender or exchange offer), each outstanding share of Class B Common Stock, whether or not held by such Person, shall be converted, automatically and without payment of additional consideration or further action by the holder thereof, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock.
90% Owner After Tender Offer
 
(D) Conversion Mechanics.
(1) .
Manner of Conversion
(a) Upon the automatic conversion of any shares of Class A Common Stock or any shares of Class B Common Stock pursuant to Section 3(B) or Section 3(C) of this Article IV (other than pursuant to Section 3(B)(1)(d)) (any such conversion, an ""), the Corporation will provide written notice of the conversion of such shares to the holders of record of such shares, at such holders' respective addresses as they appear on the transfer books of the Corporation, as soon as reasonably practicable following the applicable Conversion Time; , , that neither the failure to give such notice nor any defect therein shall affect the validity of the conversion. Such notice, which need not be sent in advance of the occurrence of the applicable Conversion Time, shall state, as appropriate and together with such other information as the Corporation may deem appropriate to include in such notice: (i) the effective date of the conversion; and (ii) the number and series of shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as the case may be, that were or are to be automatically converted and the number and class and series of shares, as applicable, into which the converted (or to be converted) shares were (or are to be) converted.
Automatic Conversion
provided
however
(b) In the event of an Automatic Conversion of any shares of Class A Common Stock or any shares of Class B Common Stock, the certificates formerly representing each such share of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock shall thereupon and thereafter be deemed to represent such number and series (if applicable) of shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, as applicable, into which such shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock were converted pursuant to such Automatic Conversion unless and until such certificate or certificates are exchanged in accordance with the following paragraph.
(c) From and after the Conversion Time applicable to shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock converted pursuant to an Automatic Conversion any holder of such shares of former Class A Common Stock or former Class B Common Stock may surrender such holder's certificate or certificates for such shares (or, if such registered holder alleges that such certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed, such holder shall provide the Corporation with a lost certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the Corporation to indemnify the Corporation and the transfer agent (if the Corporation does not serve as its own transfer agent) at the office of the transfer agent for the Class A Common Stock (or at the principal office of the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent) and if requested by the Corporation or the transfer agent (if applicable), the posting of a surety bond in customary amount and upon customary terms, against any claim that may be made against the Corporation and/or the transfer agent on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate), at the office of the transfer agent for the Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock (or at the principal office of the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent), together with written notice that such holder would like one or more new certificates (if any) representing the shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, as applicable, into which such shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock were converted pursuant to the Automatic Conversion. Such notice shall state such holder's name or, where shares were converted into shares of Common Stock, the names of
 
the nominees in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates (if any) for such shares to be issued. If required by the Corporation, certificates surrendered for conversion shall be endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by the registered holder or his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing. The Corporation shall, as soon as practicable after any such surrender following the Conversion Time applicable to any such shares, issue and deliver to such holder, or where shares were converted into shares of Common Stock, to his, her or its nominees, a certificate or certificates (if any) for the number of shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock into which such shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock were converted pursuant to the Automatic Conversion.
(2) . The Corporation shall at all times when Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding, reserve and keep available out of its authorized but unissued capital stock, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, such number of its duly authorized shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock at such time; and if at any time the number of authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, as applicable, shall not be sufficient to effect the conversion of all then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, the Corporation shall take such corporate action as may be necessary to increase its authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, as applicable, to such number of shares as shall be sufficient for such purposes, including, if applicable, seeking to obtain the requisite stockholder approval of any necessary amendment to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Reservation of Shares
(3) . Each share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock converted as herein provided shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights with respect to such share shall immediately cease and terminate at the Conversion Time applicable to such share, except only the right of the holder thereof to receive shares of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be, in exchange therefor and to receive payment of any dividends declared but unpaid on the share so converted for which the record date has already occurred. Any shares of any series of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock so converted shall be retired and cancelled and may not be reissued as shares of such series, and the Corporation may thereafter take such appropriate action (without the need for stockholder action) as may be necessary to reduce the authorized number of shares of the applicable series of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock accordingly.
Effect of Conversion
(4) .
Treatment of Certain Dividends
(a) With respect to any dividends that (i) are declared on shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-3 Common Stock or Series A-4 Common Stock, (ii) are payable in shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-3 Common Stock, or Series A-4 Common Stock, respectively, and (iii) have not been paid prior to the conversion of such shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-3 Common Stock or Series A-4 Common Stock, as applicable, into shares of Common Stock, such dividend shall be paid in the form of shares of Common Stock rather than in the form of shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-3 Common Stock or Series A-4 Common Stock, as applicable.
 
(b) With respect to any dividends that (i) are declared on shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, (ii) are payable in shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, respectively, and (iii) have not been paid prior to the conversion of such shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, as applicable, into shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock or Series A-3 Common Stock, as the case may be, such dividend shall be paid in the form of the Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock or Series A-3 Common Stock, as applicable, into which such shares were converted rather than in the form of shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock, or Series B-3 Common Stock, as applicable.
(c) With respect to any dividends that (i) are declared on shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, (ii) are payable in shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock, or Series B-3 Common Stock, respectively, and (iii) have not been paid prior to the conversion of such shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, as applicable, into shares of Common Stock, such dividend shall be paid in the form of shares of Common Stock rather than in the form of shares of Series B-1 Common Stock, Series B-2 Common Stock or Series B-3 Common Stock, as applicable.
(5) . The issuance of shares of Common Stock or Class A Common Stock, as the case may be, on the conversion of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock shall be made by the Corporation without charge for expenses or for any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or Class A Common Stock, as applicable. However, if any such shares are to be issued in a name other than that of the holder of the share or shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock converted, the person or persons requesting the issuance thereof shall pay to the Corporation the amount of any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in such issuance or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Corporation that such tax has been paid or is not required to be paid.
Taxes
(E) General.
(1) The restrictions on Transfer set forth in this Section 3 of Article IV shall be referred to as the "." The Corporation shall not register the purported Transfer of any shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock in violation of the Lock-up and any such Transfer in violation of the Lock-up shall be null and void .
Lock-up
ab initio
(2) All shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be issued solely in certificated form, which certificate shall at all times bear a legend to the effect that such shares are subject to the Lock-up.
 
(F) Definitions.
The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Acorn Trust
"" means the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Anne Ray Charitable Trust
"" and words of similar import (including "" and "") shall have the meaning attributed to them under Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act except that a Person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that such Person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after passage of time.
beneficial owner
beneficially own
beneficial ownership
"" means Cargill, Incorporated and its successors.
Cargill
means any corporation, partnership or limited liability company of which, in each case, at least ninety percent (90%) in value of the stock or other ownership interests is owned by one or more Cargill Family Members, Cargill Family Trusts, other Cargill Family Entities or Cargill Family Member Estates.
"Cargill Family Entity"
means (a) any natural person who is a lineal descendent of W.W. Cargill, including a legally adopted descendent and his or her descendents; (b) any natural person who is a spouse of any person referred to in clause (a); and (c) any natural person who is a brother, sister or parent, including as a result of a legal adoption, of any person referred to in clause (a).
"Cargill Family Member"
"" means the estate of any Cargill Family Member.
Cargill Family Member Estate
means any trust the primary beneficiaries of which are Cargill Family Members, Cargill Family Entities, other Cargill Family Trusts and/or Charitable Organizations.
"Cargill Family Trust"
"" means an organization described in Section 170(c), Section 501(c)(3) or Section 501(c)(4) of the Code.
Charitable Organization
" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code
"" means, with respect to any share of Company Common Stock, the date and time that such share is converted into any other class or series of Company Common Stock as set forth in Section 3 of this Article IV.
Conversion Time
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means January 18, 2011.
Execution Date
"" means, with respect to any natural person, such person's spouse, parents, grandparents, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, brothers and sisters, mother-in-law and father-in-law, brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law, daughters-in-law and sons-in-law. Adopted and step-members are also included as "Family Members."
Family Members
 
"" means the first day after the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Issue Date.
First Lock-Up Release Date
"" means that certain Governance Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011, by and among the Corporation, the Mosaic Company and the Stockholder Parties thereto, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
Governance Agreement
"" means the date on which Cargill consummates the Split-off, as such term is defined in the Merger and Distribution Agreement, in accordance with the terms thereof.
Issue Date
"" means: (A) with respect to each share of Series B-1 Common Stock, the First Lock-Up Release Date, (B) with respect to each share of Series B-2 Common Stock, the Second Lock-Up Release Date and (C) with respect to each share of Series B-3 Common Stock, the Third Lock-Up Release Date.
Lock-Up Expiration Date
" means the Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
"Lilac Trust
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Acorn Trust, the Lilac Trust and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust.
MAC Trusts
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
"" means a sale of capital stock of the Corporation by the MAC Trusts pursuant to and in accordance with Section 2.2(a) of the Registration Agreement.
Market Sale
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Merger
"" means that certain Merger and Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011, by and among the Corporation, The Mosaic Company, GNS Merger Sub LLC, the MAC Trusts and Cargill, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
Merger and Distribution Agreement
"" means:
Permitted Transfer
(A) any Transfer of shares to the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries;
(B) any Transfer of shares by an estate of a person who shall have died after the Execution Date or by a trust (in the event a grantor, settlor or beneficiary of such trust shall have died after the Execution Date), in each case so long as the proceeds of such Transfer are to be used to pay estate taxes and expenses payable by reason of the death of such deceased person or the death of the grantor or settlor of such trust or any one or more beneficiaries of such trust (as applicable);
(C) any pledge of shares by an estate of a person who shall have died after the Execution Date or by a trust (in the event a grantor, settlor or beneficiary of such trust shall have died after the Execution Date), in each case so long as such pledge of shares is made to a bank, trust company or other financial institution as security for a bona fide loan and
 
the proceeds of such loan are to be, or shall have been, used to pay estate taxes, debts, obligations and expenses payable by reason of the death of such deceased person or the death of the grantor or settlor of such trust or any one or more beneficiaries of such trust (as applicable), and the Transfer of any such pledged shares in connection with a foreclosure on such pledged shares;
(D) any Transfer of shares of a deceased holder to the estate of such deceased holder upon such deceased holder's death and the Transfer of such shares from the estate of such deceased holder to the beneficiaries thereof, that each such Transfer is pursuant to the deceased holder's will or the laws of descent or distribution;
provided
(E) any Transfer of shares of a holder to the bankruptcy estate of such holder if such holder has become bankrupt or insolvent;
(F) any Transfer of shares by a natural person to (i) any of such holder's Family Members, (ii) a trust for the benefit of the holder or one or more of such holder's Family Members (a "") or (iii) any corporation, partnership or limited liability company of which, in each case, 100% of the voting and equity interests are beneficially owned by one or more of such holder and such holder's Family Members or a trust for the benefit of one or more of such holder's Family Members;
Qualified Trust
(G) any Transfer of shares by a Qualified Trust to the beneficiaries and/or grantor or settlor of such trust, in each case in accordance with the terms of the governing trust instrument;
(H) any Transfer of shares of Series A-4 Common Stock by a Charitable Organization to another Charitable Organization to satisfy the transferor's annual distribution requirements under the Code, applicable treasury regulations or state law; to the extent, and only to the extent, such transferor's liquid assets are insufficient, in the good faith judgment of the transferor, to meet such annual distribution requirements and operating requirements for such period;
(I) any Transfer of shares by the Acorn Trust to the MAC Foundation in accordance with the governing trust agreement for the Acorn Trust and any Transfer of shares from the Lilac Trust to the Anne Ray Charitable Trust in accordance with the governing trust agreement for the Lilac Trust;
(J) any Transfer of shares by a holder thereof approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and by Cargill;
(K) any Transfer of shares after the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date with respect to which no gain or loss is recognized for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
(L) any Transfer of shares after the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date to Cargill Family Members, Cargill Family Entities, Cargill Family Member Estates, Cargill Family Trusts and Charitable Organizations; and
 
(M) any Transfer of shares after the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Issue Date by a Cargill Family Trust to the beneficiaries and/or grantors or settlors of such trust.
"" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, governmental entity or agency or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
"" means a sale of capital stock of the Corporation by the MAC Trusts pursuant to and in accordance with Section 2.2(c) of the Registration Agreement.
Private Sale
"" means a Transfer (A) pursuant to a tender or exchange offer that is made by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or approved (including solely for the purposes of this definition) or recommended by the Board of Directors (or a designated committee thereof) or (B) arising as a result of a reorganization, consolidation, combination or merger or similar transaction to which the Corporation is a party.
Qualified Transfer
"" means that certain Registration Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011, by and among the Corporation, The Mosaic Company, Cargill, the MAC Trusts and the other Persons party thereto, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
Registration Agreement
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Agreement.
Released Share Offering
"" means the first day after the forty-two (42) month anniversary of the Issue Date.
Second Lock-Up Release Date
"" means any of the First Formation Offering, the Second Formation Offering, the Third Formation Offering, the Fourth Formation Offering, and the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, as each such term is defined in, and pursuant to, the Registration Agreement.
Structured Formation Offering
"" means the first day after the fifty-four (54) month anniversary of the Issue Date.
Third Lock-Up Release Date
"" means (with its cognates having corresponding meanings), with respect to any securities (""), (i) any direct or indirect sale, exchange, issuance, transfer, redemption, grant, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, and whether or not for value, of any of the applicable securities, or any securities, options, warrants or rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or for the purchase or other acquisition of, any applicable securities or any contract or other binding arrangement or understanding (in each case, whether written or oral) to take any of the foregoing actions or (ii) entering into any swap or other agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, that, directly or indirectly, transfers, conveys or otherwise disposes of, in whole or in part, any of the economic or other risks or consequences of ownership of any applicable securities, including short sales of applicable securities, option transactions with respect to applicable securities, use of equity or other derivative financial instruments relating to applicable securities and other hedging arrangements with respect to applicable securities, whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of the applicable
Transfer
applicable securities
 
securities, other securities, cash or otherwise; , , that the grant of a proxy in connection with a solicitation of proxies subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Exchange Act shall not constitute a "Transfer".
provided
however
4. .
Preferred Stock
The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to limitations prescribed by law and Section 2(D)(2) of this Article IV, to provide by resolution or resolutions for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock from time to time in one or more series, and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (each a ""), to establish the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the voting powers (if any), designations, powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or other rights, if any, of the shares of each such series, and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The shares of Preferred Stock of any one series shall be identical with each other in all respects except as to the dates from and after which dividends thereon shall cumulate, if cumulative.
Preferred Stock Designation
The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(a) the designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title;
(b) the number of the shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding);
(c) whether dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or noncumulative and the dividend rate of the series;
(d) the dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable;
(e) the redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series;
(f) the terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series;
(g) the amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation;
(h) whether the shares of the series shall be convertible or exchangeable into shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series or of such other security, the conversion price or prices or exchange rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates at which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made;
(i) restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series;
 
(j) the voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series; and
(k) such other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof as the Board of Directors shall determine.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute and except as provided herein or in the bylaws, the Board of Directors shall have the power to adopt, amend, repeal or otherwise alter the bylaws without any action on the part of the stockholders in accordance with the bylaws; , , that any bylaws made by the Board of Directors and any and all powers conferred by any of said bylaws may be amended, altered or repealed by the stockholders.
provided
however
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Each person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, and each person who serves or served at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another enterprise, shall be indemnified by the Corporation in accordance with, and to the fullest extent authorized by, the General Corporation Law.
If the General Corporation Law is hereafter amended to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of a director, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law as so amended.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
The election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the Corporation shall so provide.
The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of
 
Directors. A majority of the whole Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any director may tender his resignation at any time. Subject to any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, any director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock (as hereafter defined), voting together as a single class. For purposes of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, "" shall mean the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Stock
The number of directors to constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be established as provided in the bylaws. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes designated as Class I, Class II and Class III, respectively. At the first annual meeting of stockholders, the terms of office of the Class I directors shall expire and Class I directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At the second annual meeting of the stockholders, the term office of the Class II directors shall expire and Class II directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At the third annual meeting of stockholders, the term of office for the Class III directors shall expire and Class III directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected for a full term of three years to succeed the directors of the class whose terms expire at such annual meeting. The Board of Directors is authorized to assign members of the Board of Directors already in office to such classes at the time such classification becomes effective.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. If the number of directors is hereafter changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, except as may be expressly provided as to any directors who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock.
Action shall be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation only at annual or special meetings of the stockholders, and stockholders may not act by written consent; , , that any action required or permitted to be taken by stockholders for or in connection with any action set forth in Section 2(D)(2) of Article IV and recommended by the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of the applicable classes and/or series of shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock representing the Requisite Votes (in addition to the holders of outstanding shares of Company Common Stock representing the minimum number of votes that are otherwise required under applicable law or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation) and shall otherwise comply with the procedures set forth in the bylaws of the Corporation. Special meetings of the stockholders may only be called as provided in the bylaws.
provided
however
 
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute (but subject to Section 2(D)(2) of Article IV), and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation; , , that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock Designation and the requirements of applicable law.
provided
however
 
That the foregoing amendment and restatement was approved by the holders of the requisite number of shares of this corporation in accordance with Section 228 of the DGCL.
3)
That said amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which restates and integrates and further amends the provisions of this corporation's certificate of incorporation, has been duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the DGCL.
4)
 
, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been executed by a duly authorized officer of the Corporation on this [] day of [], 20[].
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
    
        
    
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A: Form of Joinder Agreement
This REGISTRATION AGREEMENT is made as of January 18, 2011, by and among The Mosaic Company (""), GNS II (U.S.) Corp., a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic that will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" as of the Closing Date referred to below ("" or the ""), Cargill, Incorporated ("") and the MAC Trusts (as defined below).
Mosaic
M Holdings
Company
Cargill
WHEREAS, pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Merger and Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Mosaic, M Holdings, GNS Merger Sub LLC, a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings (""), and Cargill, as it may be amended from time to time (the ""), on the Closing Date (as defined in the Merger and Distribution Agreement):
Merger Sub
Merger and Distribution Agreement
(a) the certificate of incorporation of the Company will be amended (such amendment, the "") to, among other things, (x) authorize the issuance of (A) four series of shares of new Company Class A Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of Company Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote, (B) three series of shares of new Company Class B Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to ten (10) votes with respect to the election of directors and one (1) vote with respect to all other matters on which the holders of Company Class B Common Stock are entitled to vote, and (C) shares of Company Common Stock (as defined below), each share of which will be entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of Company Common Stock are entitled to vote; and (y) reclassify all of the shares of capital stock of the Company then held by Mosaic into shares of Company Common Stock to be held by Mosaic;
Company Charter Amendment
(b) after the effective time of the Company Charter Amendment, Merger Sub will merge with and into Mosaic (the "") (with Mosaic being the surviving corporation in the Merger) pursuant to which (i) Mosaic will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings; (ii) a portion of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of the different series of Company Class A Common Stock and Company Class B Common Stock; and (iii) each of the other outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (including a portion of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill) will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of Company Common Stock; and
Merger
(c) as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time, Cargill will consummate a split-off transaction (the "") pursuant to which Cargill will exchange all of the shares of Company Class B Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock and Company Common Stock it receives in the Merger (other than the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares (as defined below)) with stockholders of Cargill for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders of Cargill;
Split-off
WHEREAS, under the terms of an exchange agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and the MAC Trusts, as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of Company Class B Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock and Company Common Stock with the MAC Trusts for all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by the MAC Trusts;
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
WHEREAS, under the terms of one or more tender and support agreements, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and certain Exchanging Cargill Stockholders (as defined below), as such agreements may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock with the signatories of the Tender and Support Agreements for some or all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such Exchanging Cargill Stockholders;
Tender and Support Agreements
WHEREAS, Cargill intends that, in connection with the Split-off, it will consummate the Initial Debt Exchange (as defined below), pursuant to which it will exchange with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders (as defined below), pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements (as defined below), a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, such Initial Debt Exchange to occur on the Closing Date, as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time;
WHEREAS, it is intended that, on the Closing Date after the Split-off and the Initial Debt Exchange, the Company will consummate the First Formation Offering (as defined below) in accordance with this Agreement pursuant to which (i) the MAC Trusts will be entitled to offer and sell certain Registrable Securities (as defined below) and (ii) Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders will be entitled to offer and sell certain Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares received by the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange; and
WHEREAS, the Company has agreed to certain other arrangements with respect to the registration of Registrable Securities on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement, and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions, and for other valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. .
Defined Terms
1.1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Definitions
"" means the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Acorn
"" means public disclosure of material non-public information that, in the Company's good faith judgment: (i) would be required in order for the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2.6 of this Agreement; and (ii) would reasonably be expected either to materially interfere with any material transaction or event under consideration by the Company, or any negotiations, discussions or proposals relating thereto, or to otherwise be materially detrimental to the Company or its stockholders.
Adverse Disclosure
 
"" means, when used with respect to a specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such specified Person; , , that for the purposes hereof, neither the Company nor any Person controlled by the Company shall be deemed to be an "" of any Holder. As used in this definition, "" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided
however
Affiliate
control
"" means, at any time of determination, (i) the aggregate number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall have previously sold (or shall have been entitled to, but declined to, include) in any of the Formation Offerings and in any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, or shall have sold pursuant to Section 2.2 (if applicable), , and without duplication, (ii) the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock that shall have previously been Transferred (other than pursuant to the Permitted Trust Distributions) by any of the MAC Trusts to the Company or any other Person (including Transfers to Charitable Organizations and pursuant to the Optional Repurchase, if consummated).
Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred
plus
"" means this Registration Agreement, as this agreement may be amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time after the date hereof.
Agreement
"" means the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Anne Ray Charity
"" means the Board of Directors of Mosaic or the Company, as applicable.
Board
"" means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Cargill
"" means (a) any shares of Company Common Stock constituting the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares, and (b) any and all securities of any kind whatsoever which may be issued after the consummation of the Split-off in respect of, in exchange for, or upon conversion of, the shares of Company Common Stock referenced in clause (a) above by way of a merger, consolidation, stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off or recapitalization of the Company or otherwise. As to any particular Cargill Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Cargill Registrable Securities when such securities (i) shall have been disposed of pursuant to a Registration Statement, (ii) shall have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act) or in a private transaction, in each case, in which the transferor's rights under this Agreement are not assigned to the transferee of the securities or (iii) shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Cargill Registrable Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares
"" means an organization described in Section 170(c) or Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Charitable Organizations
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(a).
Claims
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Company
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Company Charter Amendment
"" means collectively, the Company Series A-1 Common Stock, the Company Series A-2 Common Stock, the Company Series A-3 Common Stock and the Company Series A-4 Common Stock.
Company Class A Common Stock
"" means collectively, the Company Series B-1 Common Stock, the Company Series B-2 Common Stock and the Company Series B-3 Common Stock.
Company Class B Common Stock
"" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such class of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Common Stock
"" means, for any date of determination, the average (rounded to the nearest cent) of the volume weighted average trading price of Company Common Stock (rounded to the nearest cent) on the New York Stock Exchange as reported by Bloomberg L.P. (based on a Trading Day from 9:30 a.m. (New York City time) to 4:02 p.m. (New York City time)) for each of the ten (10) Trading Days immediately preceding the date that is three (3) Business Days prior to such date of determination.
Company Market Price
"" means the Class A Common Stock, Series A-1, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series A-1 Common Stock
"" means the Class A Common Stock, Series A-2, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series A-2 Common Stock
"" means the Class A Common Stock, Series A-3, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series A-3 Common Stock
 
"" means the Class A Common Stock, Series A-4, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series A-4 Common Stock
"" means the Class B Common Stock, Series B-1, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series B-1 Common Stock
"" means the Class B Common Stock, Series B-2, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series B-2 Common Stock
"" means the Class B Common Stock, Series B-3, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Series B-3 Common Stock
"" means the Company Common Stock, the Company Class A Common Stock and the Company Class B Common Stock.
Company Stock
"" shall exist, with respect to the obligations hereunder of the Company and Mosaic in connection with any of the Second Formation Offering, Third Formation Offering or Fourth Formation Offering, as applicable, if: (i) (x) compliance with such obligations in connection with such offering would require the Company or Mosaic to violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other material securities Law (a "") or (y) a Force Majeure Event shall have occurred that makes compliance with such obligations with respect to such offering impossible; that such Legal Conflict or Force Majeure Event shall be deemed to exist with respect to such offering only so long as such Legal Conflict exists or such Force Majeure Event continues to make compliance with such obligation impossible, as the case may be, and, in each case, the Company and Mosaic shall seek (including by taking all actions and doing all things reasonably necessary) to eliminate as promptly as practicable such Legal Conflict or Force Majeure Event, as the case may be; or (ii) at any time during which, with respect to the Second Formation Offering and the Third Formation Offering, the joint book-running underwriters selected by the Company, Cargill and the MAC Trusts, and with respect to the Fourth Formation Offering, the joint book-running underwriters selected by the Company and the MAC Trusts, agree in their good faith judgment that it is impractical to proceed with such offering at such time.
Compelling Reason
Legal Conflict
provided
"" means any MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that shall have been the subject of an M Holdings Allotment Consent granted by the Company to the MAC Trusts.
Consent Shares
"" means the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Transaction Documents.
Contemplated Transactions
 
"" means any agreements entered into between Cargill and an Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder for the exchange by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder of indebtedness of Cargill for Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares.
Debt Exchange Agreements
"" means the First Demand Period, the Second Demand Period or the Third Demand Period, as applicable.
Demand Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(a).
Equity Securities
"" means any event, change, development, effect, condition, circumstance, occurrence or state of facts.
Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(d).
Excess Released Sale Suspension
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(a).
Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means those Persons who have exchanged or will exchange indebtedness of Cargill with Cargill for shares of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange.
Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders
"" means those Persons (other than the MAC Trusts) who receive shares of Company Class A Common Stock and/or Company Class B Common Stock from Cargill in exchange for shares of capital stock of Cargill in the Split-off.
Exchanging Cargill Stockholders
"" means (a) any shares of Company Common Stock issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company) upon conversion of any shares of Company Class A Common Stock and/or Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders pursuant to the Split-off, or upon conversion of, or in exchange for, any shares of Company Class A Common Stock issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company) upon conversion of any shares of Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders pursuant to the Split-off, and (b) any and all securities of any kind whatsoever which may be issued after the consummation of the Split-off in respect of, in exchange for, or upon conversion of, the shares of Company Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock referenced to in clause (a) above by way of a merger, consolidation, stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off or recapitalization of the Company or otherwise. As to any particular Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities when such securities (i) shall have been disposed of pursuant to a Registration Statement, (ii) shall have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act) or in a private transaction, in each case, in which the transferor's rights under this Agreement are not assigned to the transferee of the securities or (iii) shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 26, 2004, by and between Cargill and Mosaic.
Existing Registration Rights Agreement
"" means any and all fees and expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement, including: (i) SEC, stock exchange or FINRA registration and filing fees and all listing fees and fees with respect to the inclusion of securities on the New York Stock Exchange or on any other securities market on which the Company Common Stock is listed or quoted, (ii) fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or "blue sky" laws and in connection with the preparation of a "blue sky" survey, including reasonable fees and expenses of outside "blue sky" counsel, (iii) printing and copying expenses, (iv) messenger and delivery expenses, (v) expenses incurred in connection with any road show, (vi) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (vii) with respect to each offering, up to $20,000 of the fees and disbursements of a single counsel for the Participating Holders selected by the Leading Participating Holders holding a majority of the shares to be included in such offering, and (viii) fees and disbursements of all independent public accountants (including the expenses of any audit and/or "cold comfort" letter and updates thereof) and fees and expenses of other Persons, including special experts, retained by the Company, but excluding (x) any Underwriting Fees and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the securities registered by the Holders and (y) except as provided under clause (vii) above, all expenses and fees for all counsel and other professionals representing the Holders and any underwriters.
Expenses
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
FINRA
"" means the thirty (30)-day period beginning on the date that is the later of (x) six (6) months prior to the First Lock-up Release Date and (y) twelve (12) months after the closing of the latest of the last Formation Offering, any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, or a public offering or underwriting pursuant to the proviso in Section 2.9(a) (or after any later closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection with such offering).
First Demand Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
First Formation Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b)(iii).
First Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(b).
First Lock-up Period
"" means the first day after the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Closing Date.
First Lock-up Release Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(e)(i).
First Lock-up Released Share Offering
 
"" means any exchange after the Initial Debt Exchange pursuant to which Cargill exchanges with certain Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, for indebtedness of Cargill held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements.
Follow-on Debt Exchange
"" means an Event beyond the reasonable control of, and not proximately caused by any action of, the Company, Mosaic and their respective Subsidiaries which (i) by its nature could not reasonably have been foreseen by the Company, Mosaic or any of their respective Subsidiaries or (ii) if it could reasonably have been foreseen, was unavoidable.
Force Majeure Event
"" means any of the Second Formation Offering Period, the Third Formation Offering Period and/or the Fourth Formation Offering Period, as applicable.
Formation Offering Period
"" means the First Formation Offering, the Second Formation Offering, the Third Formation Offering and the Fourth Formation Offering.
Formation Offerings
"" means (i) if the MAC Trusts are entitled to make a Market Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(x), the date on which all Holders are no longer subject to any underwriter's lockup in connection with the Second Formation Offering or the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (if such offering occurs following the Second Formation Offering), (ii) if the MAC Trusts are entitled to make a Market Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(y), the date on which all Holders are no longer subject to any underwriter's lock-up in connection with the Third Formation Offering or (iii) if the MAC Trusts are entitled to make a Market Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(z), the date on which all Holders are no longer subject to any underwriter's lockup in connection with the Fourth Formation Offering.
Formation Shelf Trigger Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e).
Fourth Formation Offering
"" means a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities equal to (A) 49.5 million less (B) the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred prior to the Fourth Formation Offering (calculated without regard to any Consent Shares previously Transferred by the MAC Trusts).
Fourth Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e)(ii).
Fourth Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" means the period, if any, beginning on the first date after the Third Formation Offering upon which none of the MAC Trusts is subject to the Third Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up and ending on the earlier of the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date and the sixtieth (60
Fourth Formation Offering Period
th
) day after the first date after the Third Formation Offering upon which none of the MAC Trusts is subject to the Third Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e)(iv).
Fourth Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
 
"" means any nation or government, any foreign or domestic federal, state, county, municipal or other political instrumentality or subdivision thereof and any foreign or domestic entity or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative, supervisory or taxing functions of or pertaining to government, including any court.
Governmental Authority
"" means any Person who at any time is the holder of Registrable Securities and who is a party to this Agreement or has executed and delivered to the Company, the MAC Trusts and Cargill a Joinder Agreement.
Holder
"" means an exchange on the Closing Date by Cargill with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements, of a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders.
Initial Debt Exchange
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(u).
Inspectors
"" means a joinder agreement in the form attached as hereto.
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit A
"" means all laws, Orders, statutes, codes, regulations, ordinances, decrees, rules, or other requirements with similar effect of any Governmental Authority.
Law
"" means the lead book-running managing underwriter and stabilization agent with respect any offering or other disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement hereunder, whose name shall appear on the left-hand side of the prospectus.
Lead Manager
"" means: (a) with respect to any Formation Offering or S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, Cargill (if Cargill shall have requested the inclusion of Cargill Registrable Securities in such offering, including for sale by Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, in accordance with the terms hereof) and each of the MAC Trusts that shall have requested the inclusion of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities in such offering in accordance with the terms hereof; (b) with respect to any Released Share Offering, each of the MAC Trusts that shall have requested the inclusion of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities in such offering in accordance with the terms hereof and one Holder designated by the Holders holding in the aggregate at least 50% of the Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities requested to be included in such offering in accordance with Section 2.4; (c) with respect to a registration for the purpose of effecting sales of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement in accordance with Section 2.2, each of the MAC Trusts; and (d) with respect to a registration for the purpose of effecting sales of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement in accordance with Section 2.5, each of the MAC Trusts and one Holder designated by the Holders holding in the aggregate at least 50% of the Registrable Securities held by Persons other than the MAC Trusts that are requested to be included in such registration in accordance with Section 2.5.
Leading Participating Holders
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Compelling Reason.
Legal Conflict
"" means the Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Lilac
 
"" means the First Lock-up Release Date, the Second Lock-up Release Date or the Third Lock-up Release Date, as applicable.
Lock-Up Release Date
"" means the restrictions on Transfer set forth in Section 3 of Article IV of the certificate of incorporation of the Company.
Lock-Up Restrictions
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
M Holdings
"" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Agreement.
M Holdings Allotment Consent
"" means, at any time, the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock and Company Series A-4 Common Stock received by the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-Off (or any shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of shares of Company Series A-4 Common Stock received by the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-Off) less (b) the aggregate number of such shares that the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall have previously sold (or shall have been entitled to, but declined to, include) in any of the Formation Offerings and in any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, or shall have sold pursuant to Section 2.2 (if applicable). For the avoidance of doubt, the amount described in clause (a) shall equal 49,500,000.
MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Acorn Trust, the Lilac Trust and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust.
MAC Trusts
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
"" means (a) any shares of Company Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off, (b) any shares of Company Common Stock issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company), directly or indirectly in exchange for, or upon conversion of, any shares of Company Class A Common Stock and/or Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off or upon conversion of, or in exchange for, any shares of Company Class A Common Stock issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company) upon conversion of, or in exchange for, any shares of Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off, and (c) any and all securities of any kind whatsoever which may be issued after the consummation of the Split-off in respect of, in exchange for, or upon conversion of, the shares of Company Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock referenced in clause (a) or (b) above by way of a merger, consolidation, stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off or recapitalization of the Company or otherwise. As to any particular MAC Trusts Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be MAC Trusts Registrable Securities when such securities (i) shall have been disposed of pursuant to a Formation Offering or an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or any other sale pursuant to a Registration Statement, (ii) shall have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act) or in a private transaction, in each case, in which the transferor's rights under this Agreement are not assigned to the transferee of the securities or (iii) shall have ceased to be outstanding.
MAC Trusts Registrable Securities
 
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a).
Market Sales
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a).
Market Shelf Request
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger and Distribution Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Merger Effective Time
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger Sub
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Mosaic
"" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Mosaic.
Mosaic Common Stock
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Shareholders Meeting
"" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f).
Optional Repurchase
"" means for each Optional Repurchase Share (i) the Company Market Price less (ii) the aggregate Underwriting Fees per share in the Third Formation Offering.
Optional Repurchase Price
"" means, at the time of the Optional Repurchase, the number of shares of Company Series A-4 Common Stock equal to the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number.
Optional Repurchase Shares
"" shall mean all judgments, orders, writs, injunctions, decisions, rulings, decrees and awards of any Governmental Authority.
Order
"" means the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, Released Share Offering or the registration of any Registrable Securities in accordance with Sections 2.2 or 2.5 of this Agreement.
Other Offering/Registration
 
"" means, with respect to any Formation Offering, S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or Released Share Offering, the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such offering in accordance herewith (it being understood that Cargill shall be considered a Holder of Cargill Registrable Securities being sold by Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders in any Formation Offering or S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in such offering in accordance with the terms hereof) and with respect to a registration for the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement in accordance with Section 2.2 or Section 2.5, the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such registration in accordance herewith.
Participating Holders
"" means the distribution of shares of Company Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock and Company Class B Common Stock by (i) Lilac to the Anne Ray Charity in accordance with the terms of the governing trust agreement of Lilac or (ii) Acorn to the MAC Foundation in accordance with the terms of the governing trust agreement of Acorn.
Permitted Trust Distributions
"" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, governmental entity or agency or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(a).
Primary Equity Issuance
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(c).
Private Sales
"" means a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of NASD Conduct Rule 2720.
Qualified Independent Underwriter
"" means Cargill Registrable Securities, MAC Trusts Registrable Securities and, with respect to Released Share Offerings, Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities.
Registrable Securities
"" means a registration statement for a public offering and/or sale of Company Common Stock filed with, or to be filed with, the SEC under the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Act pursuant to this Agreement, including any pre- and post-effective amendments and supplements thereto, and all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Released Share Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Released Share Offering Election
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Released Share Offering Initiation Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b).
Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Released Share Registration Statement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Released Share Request
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Rule 144
"" means the S&P 500 Index owned and maintained by Standard & Poor's.
S&P 500 Index
"" means an underwritten public offering of shares of Company Common Stock that (a) occurs substantially contemporaneously with the effective time of the inclusion of the Company Common Stock in the S&P 500 Index and (b) is directed exclusively or primarily at index funds whose portfolios are primarily based on the S&P 500 Index.
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering
"" means (x) if the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering occurs prior to the Second Formation Offering, a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities equal to (A) 7.5 million less the (B) Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred (other than 7.5 million MAC Trusts Registrable Securities included in the First Formation Offering) prior to such S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, and (y) if the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering occurs after the Second Formation Offering, a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities equal to (A) 49.5 million less (B) the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred prior to such S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (calculated without regard to any Consent Shares previously Transferred by the MAC Trusts).
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering MAC Base Share Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a)(i).
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(d).
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b).
Sale Suspension
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act.
SEC
"" means the thirty (30)-day period beginning on the date that is six (6) months prior to the Second Lock-up Release Date.
Second Demand Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c).
Second Formation Offering
"" means a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities equal to (A) 7.5 million less (B) the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred (other than 7.5 million MAC Trusts Registrable Securities included in the First Formation Offering) prior to the Second Formation Offering. The "Second Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number" shall in no event be less than zero.
Second Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c)(i).
Second Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
 
"" means the ninety (90) day period beginning on the first date after the First Formation Offering upon which none of Cargill and the MAC Trusts is subject to the First Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
Second Formation Offering Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c)(iii).
Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
"" means the first day after the forty-two (42) month anniversary of the Split-off.
Second Lock-up Release Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(e)(ii).
Second Lock-up Released Share Offering
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(a).
Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities
"" means a Registration Statement of the Company filed with the SEC on either (a) Form S-3 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act) or (b) if the Company is not permitted to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3, an evergreen Registration Statement on Form S-1 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act), in each case for an offering to be made on a continuous or delayed basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act covering Registrable Securities. To the extent Mosaic or the Company, as applicable, is a WKSI, a "Shelf Registration Statement" shall be deemed to refer to an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) (an "") on Form S-3 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act).
Shelf Registration Statement
automatic shelf registration statement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(a).
Shelf Request
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Split-off
"" means the Tax Agreement entered into as of the date hereof by and among the Company, Mosaic and Cargill, as it may be amended from time to time.
Tax Agreement
"" means the restrictions set forth in the section entitled "" in the MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement.
Tax Lock Up Restrictions
Tax Lock Up
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Tender and Support Agreements
"" means the thirty (30)-day period beginning on the date that is six (6) months prior to the Third Lock-up Release Date.
Third Demand Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d).
Third Formation Offering
"" means a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities equal to (A) 49.5 million less (B) the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred prior to the Third Formation Offering (calculated without regard to any Consent Shares previously Transferred by the MAC Trusts).
Third Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(i).
Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
"" means the period, if any, beginning on the first date after the Second Formation Offering upon which none of Cargill, if applicable, or the MAC Trusts is subject to the Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up and ending on the earlier of (a) the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date and (b) the sixtieth (60
Third Formation Offering Period
th
) day (or, at the election of the MAC Trusts (acting jointly), up to the the 90
th
day) after the first date after the Second Formation Offering upon which none of Cargill, if applicable, or the MAC Trusts is subject to the Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(iii).
Third Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
"" means the first day after the fifty-four (54) month anniversary of the Split-off.
Third Lock-up Release Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(e)(iii).
Third Lock-up Released Share Offering
"" means a day on which the Company Common Stock (x) has traded at least one share on the New York Stock Exchange and (y) is not suspended from trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" means (with its cognates having corresponding meanings), with respect to any Equity Securities, (i) any direct or indirect sale, exchange, issuance, transfer, redemption, grant, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, and whether or not for value, of any of the Equity Securities, or any securities, options, warrants or rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or for the purchase or other acquisition of, any Equity Securities or any contract or other binding arrangement or understanding (in each case, whether written or oral) to take any of the foregoing actions or (ii) entering into any swap or other agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, that, directly or indirectly, transfers, conveys or otherwise disposes of, in whole or in part, any of the economic or other risks or consequences of ownership of any Equity Securities, including short sales of Equity Securities, offsetting notional principal contracts with respect to any Equity Securities, forward contracts to sell with respect to any Equity Securities, option transactions with respect to Equity Securities, use of equity or other derivative financial instruments relating to Equity Securities and other hedging arrangements with respect to Equity Securities, whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Equity Securities, other securities, cash or otherwise; , , that (a) the grant of a proxy in connection with a solicitation of proxies as provided for in any of the Transaction Documents or subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Exchange Act shall not
Transfer
provided
however
 
constitute a "Transfer" and (b) the conversion of any shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock or M Holdings Class A Common Stock and the conversion of any shares of M Holdings Class A Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings shall not constitute a "Transfer".
"" means, with respect to any Formation Offering, any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or any Released Share Offering, the gross spread, commissions, fees or other compensation payable to all underwriters in such offering.
Underwriting Fees
"" means a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined under Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act.
WKSI
1.2. .
References; Interpretation
(a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, a Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article or a Section of, or an Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "," "" or "" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Unless otherwise specified, the words "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole (including the Exhibits hereto), and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, any noun or pronoun shall be deemed to cover all genders. All references in this Agreement to the number of shares of any securities shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or similar change in such securities which may be made by the issuer thereof after date of this Agreement. Any statute, rule, order or regulation defined or referred to in this Agreement or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to in this Agreement shall mean such statute, rule, order or regulation as from time to time amended, updated, modified, supplemented or superseded, including by succession of comparable successor statutes, rules, orders or regulations and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, to the extent that such amendment, update, modification, supplement or superseding statute, rule, order or regulation is applicable to the Transactions. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.
include
includes
including
hereof
herein
hereunder
(b) The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as jointly drafted by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
 
2. .
Registration Rights
2.1. .
Formation Offerings
(a) . In advance of the Mosaic Shareholders Meeting or such other time as shall be agreed by Cargill and Mosaic and the MAC Trusts, the Company and Mosaic shall prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement (which, if permitted at such time, shall be a Shelf Registration Statement) providing for the registration of the maximum number of Registrable Securities that may be offered and sold by the MAC Trusts, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, Cargill and, if applicable, the Company in the Formation Offerings. The Company and Mosaic shall cause such Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act on the date of filing thereof (if such Registration Statement is an automatic shelf registration statement) or use their reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective as promptly as practicable after the filing thereof (if such Registration Statement is not an automatic shelf registration statement). The Company and Mosaic shall use their reasonable best efforts (including by preparing and filing such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus included therein (or any replacement Registration Statement)) as may be necessary to comply with the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder to (x) keep such Registration Statement (or a replacement Registration Statement) continuously effective until at least the earlier of (i) the second anniversary of the Closing Date and (ii) the completion of the Second Formation Offering (or, if applicable, the Third Formation Offering or Fourth Formation Offering), (y) allow for the disposition by the MAC Trusts, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill of the Registrable Securities in the Formation Offerings in accordance with Sections 2.1(b), 2.1(c), 2.1(d) and 2.1(e) (it being understood and agreed that the only Registrable Securities entitled to be included by the MAC Trusts in the Formation Offerings in accordance with Sections 2.1(b), 2.1(c), 2.1(d) and 2.1(e) shall be the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock and Company Series A-4 Common Stock received by the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-Off and any Consent Shares), and (z) otherwise comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder; , , that the Company may replace such Registration Statement with a new Registration Statement as permitted by applicable securities Laws so long as a Registration Statement remains effective at all times as required pursuant to this Section 2.1(a).
General
provided
however
(b) . The Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities to be consummated on the Closing Date after the consummation of the Split-off and the Initial Debt Exchange (such offering, the ""), subject to the provisions set forth in this Section 2.1(b).
First Formation Offering
First Formation Offering
(i) Each of the Company, the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to three book-running managing underwriters) for the First Formation Offering, and each of the other underwriters for the First Formation Offering shall be jointly selected by the Company and Cargill, in each case in consultation with the MAC Trusts and the joint book-running managing underwriters. Each of the joint book-running managing underwriters for the First Formation Offering shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing,
 
general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such offering; that the maximum number of Registrable Securities that may be included in such offering, including the number of Registrable Securities included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering (such maximum number, the ""), shall be jointly determined by the book-running managing underwriters selected by the Company and Cargill, in consultation with the book-running managing underwriter selected by the MAC Trusts. Subject to the foregoing, the book-running managing underwriter selected by Cargill shall be the Lead Manager for the First Formation Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of the First Formation Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the First Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
provided
First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
(ii) Unless otherwise agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill, (x) the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall include in the First Formation Offering 7.5 million MAC Trusts Registrable Securities delivered to the MAC Trusts as shares of Company Common Stock in the Split-off; (y) Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders shall include in the First Formation Offering such number of Cargill Registrable Securities as shall be determined by Cargill (with the allocation amongst the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders of such Cargill Registrable Securities to be determined by Cargill) and set forth in the underwriting agreement or agreements entered into in connection with the First Formation Offering; , , that the maximum number of Cargill Registrable Securities that may be included in the First Formation Offering shall not exceed the First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number less the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities being included in the First Formation Offering pursuant to clause (x) above; and (z) to the extent that the First Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the First Formation Offering pursuant to clauses (x) and (y) above, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the First Formation Offering a number of additional MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock up to such excess. Unless agreed by Cargill and the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly), the Company shall not include any securities in the First Formation Offering (for the account of the Company or any other Person), except in accordance with this Section 2.1(b)(ii).
provided
however
(iii) Cargill and the Company shall be entitled, in each case in consultation with the MAC Trusts, to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for the First Formation Offering, and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with the First Formation Offering (it being agreed that the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the First Formation Offering (the "") shall expire no later than 180 days after the Closing Date)).
First Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
(c) . Unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, the Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities to be consummated during the Second Formation Offering Period (such offering, the ""), subject to the provisions of this Section 2.1(c). The exact timing of the Second Formation Offering during the Second Formation Offering Period shall be determined in good faith by the Company, in consultation with the joint book-running managing underwriters
Second Formation Offering
Second Formation Offering
 
selected by Cargill, the Company and the MAC Trusts based on market conditions; , that if Cargill desires to effect a Follow-on Debt Exchange in connection with the Second Formation Offering, the Second Formation Offering shall be timed in consultation with Cargill so as to allow Cargill to consummate the Follow-on Debt Exchange in a manner consistent in all material respects with the terms, conditions and structure set forth in the Private Letter Ruling and the IRS Ruling Submission (both as defined in the Merger and Distribution Agreement) immediately prior to the consummation of the Second Formation Offering. If a Compelling Reason shall exist at any time during the Second Formation Offering Period, the Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause the Second Formation Offering to be consummated as promptly as practicable after such Compelling Reason ceases to exist (but in no event shall the Second Formation Offering be required or permitted to occur after the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date). For the avoidance of doubt, the Company's and Mosaic's obligation to cause a Second Formation Offering to be effected pursuant to this Section 2.1(c) shall not be deemed satisfied by the occurrence of any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering.
provided
(i) Each of the Company, the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Second Formation Offering) shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to three book-running managing underwriters) for the Second Formation Offering, and, if Cargill Registrable Securities are not to be included in the Second Formation Offering, each of the other underwriters for the Second Formation Offering shall be selected by the Company ( that one of such other underwriters shall be an underwriter selected by Cargill) or, if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Second Formation Offering, each of the other underwriters for the Second Formation Offering shall be jointly selected by the Company and Cargill, in each case in consultation with the MAC Trusts and the joint book-running managing underwriters. Each of the joint book-running managing underwriters for the Second Formation Offering shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing, general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such offering; that the maximum number of Registrable Securities that may be included in such offering, including the number of Registrable Securities to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering (such maximum number, the ""), shall be determined by the book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company, in consultation with the book-running underwriter selected by the MAC Trusts; , , that if Cargill shall have selected a joint book-running managing underwriter for the Second Formation Offering in accordance with the foregoing, the Second Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number shall be jointly determined by the book-running managing underwriters selected by the Company and Cargill, in consultation with the book-running underwriter selected by the MAC Trusts. Subject to the foregoing, the book-running managing underwriter selected by Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Second Formation Offering), or (if no Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Second Formation Offering) the book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company, shall be the Lead Manager for the Second Formation Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of the Second Formation Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
provided
provided
Second Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
provided
further
however
 
(ii) Unless otherwise agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill, Registrable Securities shall be included in the Second Formation Offering in accordance with the following order of priority:
A. first, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the Second Formation Offering up to a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock equal to the Second Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts);
B. second, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill shall be entitled to include in the Second Formation Offering such number of Cargill Registrable Securities as shall be determined by Cargill (with the allocation amongst the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill of such Cargill Registrable Securities to be determined by Cargill); , , that the maximum number of Cargill Registrable Securities that may be included in the Second Formation Offering shall not exceed the Second Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number less the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities being included in the Second Formation Offering pursuant to clause A. above; and
provided
however
C. third, to the extent that the Second Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the Second Formation Offering pursuant to clauses A. and B. above, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the Second Formation Offering a number of additional MAC Trusts Registrable Securities up to such excess comprised of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock and Consent Shares (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts).
Unless agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities will be included in the Second Formation Offering), the Company shall not include any securities in the Second Formation Offering (for the account of the Company or any other Person), except in accordance with clauses A., B., and C. above.
(iii) The Company and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Second Formation Offering) shall be entitled, in each case in consultation with the MAC Trusts, to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for the Second Formation Offering, and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with the Second Formation Offering (it being agreed that the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the Second Formation Offering (the "") shall expire no later than 90 days after the closing of the Second Formation Offering).
Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
 
(d) . Subject to the last sentence of this paragraph (d), unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, the Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause an underwritten offering of shares of Registrable Securities to be consummated during the Third Formation Offering Period (such offering, the ""), subject to the provisions of this Section 2.1(d). The exact timing of the Third Formation Offering during the Third Formation Offering Period shall be determined in good faith by the Company in consultation with the joint book-running managing underwriters selected by Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering), the Company and the MAC Trusts (if MAC Trust Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering) based on market conditions; , that if Cargill desires to effect a Follow-on Debt Exchange in connection with the Third Formation Offering, the Third Formation Offering shall be timed in consultation with Cargill so as to allow Cargill to consummate the Follow-on Debt Exchange in a manner consistent in all material respects with the terms, conditions and structure set forth in the Private Letter Ruling and the IRS Ruling Submission immediately prior to the consummation of the Third Formation Offering. If a Compelling Reason shall exist at any time during the Third Formation Offering Period, the Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause the Third Formation Offering to be consummated as promptly as practicable after such Compelling Reason ceases to exist (but in no event shall a Third Formation Offering be required or permitted to occur after the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date). For the avoidance of doubt, the Company's and Mosaic's obligation to cause a Third Formation Offering to be effected pursuant to this Section 2.1(d) shall not be deemed satisfied by the occurrence of any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall not, without the consent of Cargill and the MAC Trusts, effect the Third Formation Offering contemplated by this Section 2.1(d) if (A) following the consummation of the later of the Second Formation Offering and, if the Company has determined to conduct the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering prior to the Third Formation Offering, the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares for which the MAC Trusts have received consent from the Company to sell in any Third Formation Offering is less than 9.5 million, (B) the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) have delivered to the Company on or prior to the expiration of the Second Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up or the S&P Index Inclusion Offering Underwriters' Lock-up, as applicable, a written request that no Third Formation Offering be consummated and (C) Cargill then holds no Cargill Registrable Securities or Cargill, by written notice to the Company, shall have waived its right to the Third Formation Offering.
Third Formation Offering
Third Formation Offering
provided
(i) Each of the Company, the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) (if MAC Trust Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering) shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to three book-running managing underwriters) for the Third Formation Offering, and each of the other underwriters for the Third Formation Offering shall be selected by the Company in consultation with the MAC Trusts (if MAC Trust Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering) and the joint book-running managing underwriters ( that one of such other underwriters shall be an underwriter selected by Cargill). Each of the joint book-running managing underwriters shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing, general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such offering; that the maximum number of Registrable Securities that may be included in such
provided
provided
 
offering, including the number of Registrable Securities to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering (such maximum number, the ""), shall be jointly determined by the book-running managing underwriters selected by the Company and the MAC Trusts; , , that if the MAC Trusts shall not have selected a joint book-running managing underwriter for the Third Formation Offering, the Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number shall be jointly determined by the book-running managing underwriters selected by the Company and Cargill. Subject to the foregoing, the book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company shall be the Lead Manager for the Third Formation Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of the Third Formation Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the Third Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
provided
however
(ii) Unless otherwise agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill, Registrable Securities shall be included in the Third Formation Offering in accordance with the following order of priority:
A. first, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the Third Formation Offering up to a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock equal to the Third Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts); , , that the maximum number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that may be included in the Third Formation Offering shall not exceed the Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number;
provided
however
B. second, subject to the Tax Lock Up Restrictions, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the Third Formation Offering Consent Shares (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts); , , that the maximum number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that may be included in the Third Formation Offering pursuant to clause A. and this clause B. shall not exceed the Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number;
provided
however
C. third, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill shall be entitled to include in the Third Formation Offering such number of Cargill Registrable Securities as shall be determined by Cargill (with the allocation amongst the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill of such Cargill Registrable Securities to be determined by Cargill); , , that the maximum number of Cargill Registrable Securities that may be included in the Third Formation Offering shall not exceed the Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number less the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities being included in the Third Formation Offering pursuant to clauses A. and B. above; and
provided
however
D. fourth, subject to the Tax Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to include in the Third Formation Offering such number of shares of Company Common Stock for its own account or for the account of any other Person as shall be determined by the Company; , , that the maximum number of shares of Company Common Stock that may be included in the Third Formation Offering by the Company pursuant to this clause D. shall not exceed the Third Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number less the number of Registrable Securities being included in the Third Formation Offering pursuant to clauses A., B. and C. above.
provided
however
 
(iii) The Company and the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) shall be entitled, in consultation with Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the Third Formation Offering), to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for the Third Formation Offering and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with such offering (it being agreed that the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the Third Formation Offering (the "") shall expire no later than 60 days after the closing of the Third Formation Offering).
Third Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
(e) .
Fourth Formation Offering
(i) If following the consummation of the Third Formation Offering (if any) the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares for which the MAC Trusts have received consent from the Company to sell in any Fourth Formation Offering is greater than or equal to 9.5 million, at the request of the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) but not otherwise, unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, the Company and Mosaic shall, subject to Section 2.1(f), take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause an underwritten offering of shares of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be consummated during the Fourth Formation Offering Period (such offering, the ""), subject to the provisions of this Section 2.1(e). The exact timing of the Fourth Formation Offering during the Fourth Formation Offering Period shall be determined in good faith by the Company based on market conditions. If a Compelling Reason shall exist at any time during the Fourth Formation Offering Period, the Company and Mosaic shall take all actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to cause the Fourth Formation Offering to be consummated as promptly as practicable after such Compelling Reason ceases to exist; , that in no event shall a Fourth Formation Offering be required or permitted to occur after the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date.
Fourth Formation Offering
provided
(ii) Each of the Company, the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill (if a joint book-running managing underwriter selected by Cargill is entitled to receive a portion of the Underwriting Fees in the Fourth Formation Offering) shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to three book-running managing underwriters) for the Fourth Formation Offering, and each of the other underwriters for the Fourth Formation Offering shall be selected by the Company in consultation with the MAC Trusts and the joint book-running managing underwriters. Each of the joint book-running managing underwriters shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing, general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such offering; that the maximum number of MAC Trust Registrable Securities that may be included in such offering, including the number of MAC Trust Registrable Securities to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering, (such maximum number, the ""), shall be jointly determined by the book-running managing underwriters selected by the Company and the MAC Trusts. Subject to the foregoing, the
provided
Fourth Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number
 
book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company shall be the Lead Manager for the Fourth Formation Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of the Fourth Formation Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the Fourth Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up.
(iii) The MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the Fourth Formation Offering up to a number of MAC Trust Registrable Securities issuable upon the conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock equal to the Fourth Formation Offering MAC Base Share Number (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trust Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts); , , that the maximum number of MAC Trust Registrable Securities that may be included in the Fourth Formation Offering shall not exceed the Fourth Formation Offering Maximum Sale Number.
provided
however
(iv) The Company shall be entitled, in consultation with the MAC Trusts, to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for the Fourth Formation Offering, and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with such offering (it being agreed that the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the Fourth Formation Offering (the "") shall expire no later than 60 days after the closing of the Fourth Formation Offering).
Fourth Formation Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
(f) . In place of the obligations (if any) of the Company and Mosaic to consummate a Fourth Formation Offering pursuant to Section 2.1(e), the Company shall have the option (exercisable in its sole discretion), to repurchase (the ""), out of funds legally available therefor, from the MAC Trusts (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such shares to be repurchased to be determined by the MAC Trusts) the Optional Repurchase Shares at the Optional Repurchase Price. The Company shall have the right to exercise such option and effect such repurchase at any time from and after the consummation of the Third Formation Offering through the end of the Fourth Formation Offering Period.
Optional Repurchase
Optional Repurchase
2.2. .
Market Sales; Private Sales
(a) . Subject to Section 2.2(b), if (x) following the consummation of the Second Formation Offering, (i) the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is less than 9.5 million but greater than zero and (ii) in accordance with the last sentence of Section 2.1(d), the Company will not effect the Third Formation Offering, (y) following the consummation of the Third Formation Offering, the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is either (A) greater than 9.5 million and the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) have indicated in writing to the Company that no request will be made by the MAC Trusts pursuant to Section 2.1(e)(1) for the Company to conduct a Fourth Formation Offering or (B) less than 9.5 million but greater than zero or (z) following the consummation of the Fourth Formation Offering, the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is greater than zero, then, in the case of any of clauses (x), (y) or (z), the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) shall have the right, by delivery of a written request to the Company (a ""), to
Market Sales
Market Shelf Request
 
request that the Company prepare and file with the SEC, and cause to become effective, in each case as promptly as practicable (but no earlier than the applicable Formation Shelf Trigger Date), a Shelf Registration Statement (and any necessary or appropriate prospectuses and prospectus supplements), and the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with such request, pursuant to which, subject to Section 2.2(b), the MAC Trusts shall be permitted to sell MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock and Consent Shares from time to time after the applicable Formation Shelf Trigger Date (or, if later, the effective time of such Shelf Registration Statement), but in no event later than the twenty-four (24) month anniversary of the Closing Date (with the right to sell such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be allocated amongst the MAC Trusts as shall be determined by the MAC Trusts) (including through a broker that acted as underwriter in any Formation Offering or the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering); that all such sales shall (i) be effected solely through a broker in open market transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or other principal trading market of Company Common Stock at prices then prevailing in the market, (ii) not involve a public offering for cash or an underwriting and (iii) not involve an investment bank acting in a capacity other than as a broker. Any sales of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities made pursuant to this Section 2.2(a) are referred to as "". The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep any Shelf Registration Statement under this Section 2.2(a) continuously effective under the Securities Act (including by filing any necessary post-effective amendments to such Shelf Registration Statement (or a new automatic shelf registration statement)) until the date that is the twenty-four (24) month anniversary of the Closing Date or until such earlier time as all securities that are eligible to be sold in such Shelf Registration Statement shall no longer constitute Registrable Securities.
provided
Market Sales
(b) . If the continued sales by the MAC Trusts pursuant to Section 2.2(a) would at any time require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure, the Company may, by giving written notice to the MAC Trusts, require the MAC Trusts to suspend sales pursuant to Section 2.2(a) and Section 2.2(c) (a ""); , that the Company shall not be permitted to require a Sale Suspension (i) more than two (2) times during any twelve (12) month period or (ii) for a period exceeding forty-five (45) days in succession on any one occasion. In the case of a Sale Suspension, the MAC Trusts agree not to effect any Private Sales and to suspend use of the applicable prospectus and any free writing prospectuses in connection with any Market Sales or any other offer to sell Registrable Securities, upon receipt of the notice referred to above. The Company shall immediately notify the MAC Trusts upon the termination of any Sale Suspension.
Sale Suspension
Sale Suspension
provided
(c) . If (x) following the consummation of the Second Formation Offering, (i) the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is less than 9.5 million but greater than zero and (ii) in accordance with the last sentence of Section 2.1(d), the Company will not effect the Third Formation Offering, (y) following the consummation of the Third Formation Offering, the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is either (A) greater than 9.5 million and the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) have indicated in writing to the Company that no request will be made by the MAC Trusts pursuant to Section 2.1(e)(i) for the Company to conduct a Fourth Formation Offering or (B) less than 9.5 million but greater than zero or (z) following the consummation of the Fourth Formation Offering, the sum of the MAC Remaining A-4 Share Number plus the number of
Private Sales
 
Consent Shares not yet Transferred by the MAC Trusts is greater than zero, then, in the case of any of clauses (x), (y) or (z), subject to Section 2.2(b), the MAC Trusts shall be permitted to sell MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock and Consent Shares from time to time after the applicable Formation Shelf Trigger Date; that all such sales (i) shall be made in accordance with applicable securities laws and pursuant to the terms of Section 2.02(b)(vi) of the Governance Agreement, (ii) shall not involve a public offering for cash or an underwriting, (iii) shall not involve an investment bank acting in a capacity other than as a broker and (iv) shall either (A) be effected solely through a broker in open market transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or other principal trading market of Company Common Stock at prices then prevailing in the market or (B) involve a negotiation with the potential acquirers regarding terms of the acquisition. Any sales made pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) are referred to as "".
provided
Private Sales
2.3. .
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering
(a) The Company may, at its election, cause an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering to be effected, subject to the following:
(i) The exact timing of any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering and the maximum number of shares of Company Common Stock that may be included in such offering, including the number of shares of Company Common Stock to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering (such maximum number, the "") shall be determined in good faith by the Company in consultation with Cargill (if Cargill then holds Cargill Registrable Securities) and the MAC Trusts, in each case in consultation with the book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company; , , that (x) the Company shall not be permitted to effect an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering after the date of the Third Formation Offering without the prior consent of the MAC Trusts, (y) if Cargill desires to effect a Follow-on Debt Exchange in connection with the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, the Company shall, to the extent reasonably practicable (which the Company shall determine in its reasonable discretion), time the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering to allow Cargill to consummate the Follow-on Debt Exchange in a manner consistent in all material respects with the terms, conditions and structure set forth in the Private Letter Ruling and the IRS Ruling Submission immediately prior to the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, and (z) the Company shall not effect an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (A) later than the fifteen (15) month anniversary of the Closing Date, (B) without the consent of Cargill and the MAC Trusts, if the underwriters' lock-up period associated with an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering would reasonably be expected to prevent the completion of the Second Formation Offering within the time period prescribed by this Agreement, or (C) without the consent of the MAC Trusts, if the underwriters' lock-up period associated with an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering would reasonably be expected to prevent the completion of the Third Formation Offering within the time period prescribed by this Agreement.
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Maximum Sale Number
provided
however
(ii) The consummation of an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering shall not relieve the Company or Mosaic of its obligations to effect any of the Formation Offerings in accordance with Section 2.1.
 
(b) Each of the Company, the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering) shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to three book-running managing underwriters) for the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, and the Company shall be entitled to select the other underwriters for the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (if any) in consultation with the joint book-running managing underwriters. The joint book-running managing underwriter for the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering selected by the Company shall be the Lead Manager for the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Underwriters' Lockup; that to the extent practicable any other joint book-running underwriters shall be entitled to participate in such due diligence, structuring, marking, general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such offering.
provided
(c) Unless otherwise agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and, if Cargill (or any Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders) then holds Cargill Registrable Securities, Registrable Securities shall be included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering in accordance with the following order of priority:
A. first, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering up to a number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-4 Common Stock equal to the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering MAC Base Share Number (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts); , , that the maximum number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that may be included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering shall not exceed the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Maximum Sale Number;
provided
however
B. second, Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill shall be entitled to include in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering such number of Cargill Registrable Securities as shall be determined by Cargill (with the allocation amongst the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders and Cargill of such Cargill Registrable Securities to be determined by Cargill); , , that the maximum number of Cargill Registrable Securities that may be included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering pursuant to this clause B. shall not exceed the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Maximum Sale Number less the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities being included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering pursuant to clause A. above;
provided
however
C. third, subject to the Tax Lock Up Restrictions, to the extent that the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering pursuant to clauses A. and B. above, the MAC Trusts, in the aggregate, shall be entitled to include in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering a number of additional MAC Trusts Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of the Company Series A-4 Common Stock and Consent Shares up to such excess (with the allocation amongst the MAC Trusts of such MAC Trusts Registrable Securities to be determined by the MAC Trusts).
 
Unless agreed by the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and, if Cargill then holds Cargill Registrable Securities, by Cargill, the Company shall not include any securities in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (for the account of the Company or any other Person), except in accordance with clauses A., B., and C. above.
(d) The Company shall be entitled, in consultation with the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and Cargill (if Cargill Registrable Securities are to be included in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering), to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering ( that (x) without the consent of Cargill (if Cargill holds Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) and the MAC Trusts, the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (the "") may not prevent the completion of the Second Formation Offering within the time period prescribed by this Agreement and (y) without the consent of the MAC Trusts, the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Underwriters' Lock-up may not prevent the completion of the Third Formation Offering within the time period prescribed by this Agreement and (z) it being agreed that, in any event, the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Underwriter's Lock-up shall expire no later than 60 days after the closing of the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering).
provided
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering Underwriters' Lock-up
2.4. .
Released Share Offerings
(a) (i) The MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) shall have the right to request that the Company and Mosaic cause an underwritten secondary offering (a "") of Registrable Securities to be effected pursuant to a Registration Statement (a ""), by delivering a written request to the Company during any Demand Period, specifying the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that each of the MAC Trusts requests to include in such offering (any such request, a ""); that the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) may only make one Released Share Request during any Demand Period. If the MAC Trusts decline or otherwise fail to deliver a Released Share Request to the Company during any Demand Period, the Company will have the right, in its sole discretion, to effect a Released Share Offering in accordance with this Section 2.4 (the exercise of such right by the Company, a ""). If the Company either receives a Released Share Request during a Demand Period or makes a Released Share Offering Election, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause a Released Share Offering to be consummated at a time determined in good faith by the Company that is subsequent to the date of its receipt of the Released Share Request or the date of its Released Share Offering Election, as applicable (such date, the "") and no later than one (1) month prior to the Lock-up Release Date following the applicable Demand Period. The MAC Trusts shall not deliver a Released Share Request prior to the First Demand Period.
Released Share Offering
Released Share Registration Statement
Released Share Request
provided
Released Share Offering Election
Released Share Offering Initiation Date
 
(b) In connection with any Released Share Offering, each of the Company and the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) (if the MAC Trusts shall have requested to include at least 3.0 million MAC Trusts Registrable Securities in such Released Share Offering) shall be entitled to select one joint book-running managing underwriter (for a total of up to two book-running managing underwriters), and the Company shall select the other underwriters for the Released Share Offering in consultation with the joint book-running managing underwriters. Each of the book-running managing underwriters shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing, general execution, pricing and book-building in connection with such Released Share Offering; that the book-running managing underwriter selected by the Company (x) shall be the Lead Manager for each Released Share Offering, shall lead the due diligence, structuring, marketing and general execution of each Released Share Offering and shall have the exclusive right to release Persons from the underwriters' lock-up associated with each such Released Share Offering and (y) shall determine the number of shares of Company Common Stock that may be included in such offering (such maximum number with respect to each Released Share Offering including the number of shares of Company Common Stock to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering, the "") and the number of shares of Company Common Stock to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering.
provided
Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number
(c) No later than five (5) Business Days after the Released Share Offering Initiation Date, the Company shall deliver written notice of such proposed offering to all Holders of Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities and MAC Trusts Registrable Securities (other than, in the case of a Released Share Request, the MAC Trusts). Such notice shall set forth the number of Registrable Securities each of the MAC Trusts requested be included in the Released Share Offering or, in the case of any Released Share Offering Election, the number of Registrable Securities proposed by the Company to be offered for sale in the Released Share Offering. Subject to the limitations of Section 2.4(d) and Section 2.4(e), the Company shall cause to be included in such Released Share Offering all MAC Trusts Registrable Securities specified in any Released Share Request and all Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities and MAC Trusts Registrable Securities specified in any written request or requests received by the Company from Holders of Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities and MAC Trusts Registrable Securities within ten (10) days after the delivery by the Company of such written notices.
(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.4(a) and Section 2.4(c), the Company shall not be obligated to effect a Released Share Offering unless the aggregate number of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such offering pursuant to Sections 2.4(a) and Section 2.4(c) is equal to or exceeds 9.5 million or the request includes all remaining Registrable Securities.
 
(e) If the number of Registrable Securities requested to be included in any Released Share Offering exceeds the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number with respect to such Released Share Offering, Registrable Securities shall be included in accordance with the following order of priority (excluding the Registrable Securities to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering, which shall be allocated in accordance with Section 2.4(f)):
(i) In the case of a Released Share Offering effected pursuant to a Released Share Request made during the First Demand Period or a Released Share Offering Election with respect thereto (the ""):
First Lock-Up Released Share Offering
A. first, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-1 Common Stock up to the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders;
B. second, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clause A. above, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-3 Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders;
C. third, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clauses A. and B. above, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-2 Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders; and
D. fourth, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clauses A., B. and C. above, a number of Registrable Securities that are shares of Company Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the First Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders;
 
(ii) In the case of a Released Share Offering effected pursuant to a Released Share Request made during the Second Demand Period or a Released Share Offering Election with respect thereto (the ""):
Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering
A. first, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-2 Common Stock up to the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders;
B. second, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clause A. above, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-3 Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders; and
C. third, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clauses A. and B. above, a number of Registrable Securities that are shares of Company Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Second Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders;
(iii) In the case of a Released Share Offering effected pursuant to a Released Share Request made during the Third Demand Period or a Released Share Offering Election with respect thereto (the ""):
Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering
A. first, a number of Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of Company Series A-3 Common Stock up to the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders; and
B. second, to the extent that the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the number of Registrable Securities being included in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering pursuant to clause A. above, a number of Registrable
 
Securities that are shares of Company Common Stock up to such excess, allocated on a pro rata basis among all Holders requesting inclusion of such Registrable Securities in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering, based on the number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering by each such Holder in relation to the aggregate number of such Registrable Securities sought to be included in the Third Lock-Up Released Share Offering by all such Holders.
(f) MAC Trusts Registrable Securities shall have priority for inclusion in any over-allotment option associated with any Released Share Offering with the type of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities eligible for inclusion in such Released Share Offering to be determined in accordance with the order of priority set forth in Section 2.4(e)(i), Section 2.4(e)(ii) or Section 2.4(e)(iii), as applicable; , , that if the number of Registrable Securities to be included in any over-allotment option associated with such offering exceeds the number of MAC Trusts Registrable Securities sought to be included therein, then such excess securities shall be allocated amongst the Holders of Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities who were not allocated the full amount of Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities requested by them to be included in such Released Share Offering (in each case in accordance with the order of priority set forth in Section 2.4(e)(i), Section 2.4(e)(ii) or Section 2.4(e)(iii), as applicable).
provided
however
(g) The Company shall not include any securities in any Released Share Offering (for the account of the Company or any other Person), except in accordance with clauses (e) and (f) of this Section 2.4, without the consent of the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly), or if no MAC Trusts Registrable Securities are being included in such Released Share Offering, the Leading Participating Holders, unless the Released Share Offering Maximum Sale Number exceeds the total number of all Registrable Securities to be included in such offering pursuant to Section 2.4(a) and Section 2.4(c), in which case the Company may include additional securities in such offering (for its own account or otherwise) up to such excess.
(h) The Company and the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly), or the Leading Participating Holders if no MAC Trusts Registrable Securities are being included in the applicable Released Share Offering, shall be entitled to (a) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the pricing, the Underwriting Fees and the other terms of the underwriting agreement for each Released Share Offering and (b) conduct the negotiations with the underwriters with respect to the terms of the underwriters' lock-up associated with such offering (it being agreed that, in any event, the underwriters' lock-up period associated with the any Released Share Offering shall expire no later than 90 days after the closing of such offering).
2.5. .
Excess Released Share Shelf Registration Statement
(a) If (x) the MAC Trusts shall have delivered to the Company a Released Share Request during a Demand Period and (y) after the Lock-Up Release Date next occurring after such Demand Period, any Holder who holds MAC Trusts Registrable Securities not then subject to Lock-up Restrictions that such Holder requested to be included in the Released Share Offering prior to such time, the MAC Trusts shall have the right, by delivering a written request to the Company within ninety (90) days after such Lock-Up Release Date (a ""), to require the Company to use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC, and
Shelf Request
 
cause to become effective, in each case as promptly as practicable, a Shelf Registration Statement (and any necessary or appropriate prospectuses and prospectus supplements), or use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC, and cause to become effective, in each case as promptly as practicable, all necessary or appropriate amendments to any then effective Shelf Registration Statement of the Company (and any necessary or appropriate prospectus supplements), in either case pursuant to which any Holder shall be entitled to sell from time to time (subject to any underwriters' lock-up associated with a prior Released Share Offering to which such Holder is subject) Exchanging Cargill Stockholder Registrable Securities and MAC Trusts Registrable Securities that are not then subject to Lock-up Restrictions ("") using the intended methods of distribution set forth in the Shelf Request. Any Shelf Request shall specify the number of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities held by the MAC Trusts to be included for sale pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement (the "") and the intended methods of distribution of such Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to prepare and file the Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement if all of the Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities held by the MAC Trusts specified in the Shelf Request can be sold by the Holders thereof under Rule 144 in one three-month period.
Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities
Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement
(b) No later than five (5) Business Days after receipt of any Shelf Request, the Company shall deliver written notice of such request to all Holders of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities (other than the MAC Trusts). Such notice shall set forth the number of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities each of the MAC Trusts requested be registered in the Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement and the intended methods of distribution set forth in the Shelf Request. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be registered pursuant to the Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement, for sale by the Holders thereof in accordance with the intended methods of distribution set forth in the Shelf Request, all Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities specified in the Shelf Request and any written request or requests received by the Company from Holders of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities (other than the MAC Trusts) after the delivery by the Company of such written notices.
(c) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep any Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act (including by filing any necessary post-effective amendments to such Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement (or a new automatic shelf registration statement)) for a period of at least 90 days (excluding the period of any Excess Released Sale Suspension) from the date sales of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities were permitted thereunder pursuant to the Securities Act, or until such earlier time as all Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities included in any Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement shall no longer constitute Registrable Securities.
(d) If the continued sales pursuant to an Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement would at any time require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure, the Company may, by giving written notice to the Holders of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities registered pursuant to such Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement then in effect, require such Holders to suspend sales pursuant to such Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement (an ""); , that the Company shall not be permitted to require an Excess Released Sale Suspension (i) more than two times during any (twelve) 12-month period or (ii) for a period exceeding forty-five (45) days in succession on any one occasion. In the case of any Excess Released Sale Suspension, the Holders of Shelf Eligible Registrable Securities registered pursuant to such Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement shall suspend use of the applicable prospectus, prospectus supplement and any free writing prospectuses in connection with any sale of, or
Excess Released Sale Suspension
provided
 
offer to sell, Eligible Registrable Securities pursuant to such Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement, upon receipt of the notice referred to above. The Company shall immediately notify such Holders upon the termination of any Excess Released Sale Suspension.
2.6.. If and whenever the Company (x) is required by the provisions of this Agreement to effect a Formation Offering in accordance with Section 2.1 of this Agreement or a Released Share Offering in accordance with Section 2.4 of this Agreement, (y) determines to effect an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering in accordance with Section 2.3 of this Agreement or (z) is required to cause the registration of any Registrable Securities in accordance with Sections 2.2 or 2.5 of this Agreement, the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) shall, acting within the timeframes set forth in this Agreement and, where no such timeframe is provided, as promptly as reasonably practicable:
Registration Procedures
(a) (i) (A) with respect to any Formation Offering pursuant to Section 2.1, unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, take all such actions, and (B) with respect to the registration of Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2.2, use reasonable best efforts to take all such actions reasonably necessary, in each case on the part of the Company and Mosaic, to prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement (or prepare and file with the SEC all necessary or appropriate amendments and supplements to any then effective Registration Statement) in accordance with Section 2.1(a), (ii) with respect to any registration pursuant to Section 2.5, use reasonable best efforts to take all such actions reasonably necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement (or prepare and file with the SEC all necessary or appropriate amendments and supplements to any then effective Registration Statement) in accordance with Section 2.5 to allow for the disposition of Registrable Securities in accordance with the methods of disposition thereof determined in accordance with Section 2.5, and (iii) with respect to each Released Share Offering or any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, as applicable, use reasonable best efforts to take all such actions reasonably necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement (or prepare and file with the SEC all necessary or appropriate amendments and supplements to any then effective Registration Statement) to allow for the disposition of Registrable Securities in the S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or the Released Share Offering, as applicable, and, in the case of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, each such Registration Statement shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable registration form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated therein, and the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause each such Registration Statement (or amendment) to be declared or become effective as promptly as reasonably practicable and remain continuously effective (x) with respect to a Registration Statement filed (or amended or supplemented) pursuant to Section 2.1(a), for the period set forth in Section 2.1(a), (y) with respect to a Registration Statement filed (or amended or supplemented) pursuant to Section 2.2(a), for the period set forth in Section 2.2(a), (z) with respect to any Registration Statement filed (or amended or supplemented) pursuant to Section 2.5, for the period set forth in Section 2.5(c), and with respect to any Registration Statement relating to a Released Share Offering or an
 
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering for forty-five (45) days or such other period as may be agreed between the Company and any Leading Participating Holders with respect to such offering (, , that before filing a Registration Statement or prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, or comparable statements under securities or state "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction, or any free writing prospectus related thereto, the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) will furnish to counsel for the Leading Participating Holders participating in the applicable offering or registration and to counsel for the underwriters, if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed (including all exhibits thereto), which documents will be subject to the reasonable review and reasonable comment of such counsel, and, before filing any such document, including any such Registration Statement or amendment thereto, any prospectus or supplement thereto or any free writing prospectus related thereto, the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) shall make any changes thereto that the Leading Participating Holders or the underwriters, if any, shall reasonably request;
provided
however
(b) (i) with respect to any Formation Offering, unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, take all such actions and (ii) with respect to any Other Offering/Registration, use reasonable best efforts to take all such actions reasonably necessary, in each case on the part of the Company and Mosaic to prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the period required hereunder and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the sale or other disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the Participating Holders set forth in such Registration Statement (and, in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, file one or more prospectus amendments or supplements covering Registrable Securities permitted to be sold thereunder upon the request of one or more Holders entitled to offer or sell Registrable Securities under such Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the terms hereof);
(c) in connection with each Formation Offering, Released Share Offering and any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering, enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting agreement, in customary form and on customary terms for the particular offering with the underwriters of such offering;
(d) in connection with each Formation Offering, Released Share Offering and any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or registrations pursuant Sections 2.2 and 2.5, furnish, without charge, to each Participating Holder, and each underwriter, if any, such number of copies of the prospectus included in the Registration Statement with respect to such offering (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus), any other prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act and each free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, in each case, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, and other documents, as such Participating Holder or underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities by such Participating Holder or such underwriter (the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) hereby consents to the use in accordance with all applicable law of each such prospectus (or preliminary prospectus or supplement thereto) or free writing prospectus by each such Participating Holder and the underwriters, if any, in connection with the offering and sale in accordance with the terms hereof of the Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or prospectus);
 
(e) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement under such other securities or state "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Leading Participating Holder or managing underwriter, if any, shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the Participating Holders and underwriters, if any, to consummate the disposition of the Registrable Securities in such jurisdictions (including keeping such registration or qualification in effect for so long as such Registration Statement remains in effect), except that in no event shall the Company or Mosaic be required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction where it would not, but for the requirements of this paragraph (e), be required to be so qualified, to subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or to consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction;
(f) promptly notify each Participating Holder and each managing underwriter, if any: (i) when any such Registration Statement or any prospectus, prospectus supplement or any free writing prospectus relating thereto has been filed and, with respect to such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment related thereto, when the same has become effective; (ii) of any request by the SEC or state securities authority for amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or any prospectus, prospectus supplement or free writing prospectus related thereto or for additional information; (iii) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose; (iv) of the receipt by the Company or Mosaic of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of any Registrable Securities for sale under the securities or state "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; (v) unless in connection with a Sale Suspension or an Excess Released Sale Suspension, subject to the execution by the prospective recipient of a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company, of the existence of any fact of which the Company or Mosaic becomes aware which results in (x) any such Registration Statement as of the date it became effective under the Securities Act, containing an untrue statement of any material fact or omitting to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading or (y) any prospectus, prospectus supplement (when taken together with the related prospectus) or free writing prospectus (when taken as a whole with any other free writing prospectus and the related prospectus supplement and prospectus), in each case including any document incorporated therein by reference, as of its date, containing an untrue statement of a material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (vi) if at any time the representations and warranties made by the Company or Mosaic contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sale agreement, or other similar agreement, relating to the offering shall cease to be true and correct in any material respect; and, if the notification relates to an event described in clause (v), the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) shall, (A) with respect to any Formation Offering, unless a Compelling Reason shall have occurred and shall continue to exist, take all actions necessary on the part of the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic), and (B) with respect to any Other Offering/Registration, use reasonable best efforts (when, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, it is appropriate to disclose), in each case, to promptly prepare and file with the SEC,
 
and furnish to each Participating Holder and each underwriter, if any, a reasonable number of copies of, an amendment or supplement to such document, or a free writing prospectus, so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such document (when taken as a whole with any related prospectus, prospectus supplement and free writing prospectus) shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) shall have no such obligation during any Sale Suspension or Excess Released Sale Suspension;
provided
(g) permit any Participating Holder which, might reasonably be deemed to be an underwriter or a controlling person of the Company, to participate in the preparation of such Registration Statement or comparable statement;
(h) comply (and continue to comply) in all material respects with all rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to the Company or Mosaic, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and make generally available to the Company's securityholders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act no later than ninety (90) days after the end of the twelve (12) month period beginning with the first day of the Company's (and, where applicable, Mosaic's) first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of any such Registration Statement, which earnings statement shall cover said twelve (12) month period, and which requirement will be deemed to be satisfied if the Company (or, where applicable, Mosaic) timely files complete and accurate (in all material respects) information on Forms 10-Q, 10-K and 8-K under the Exchange Act and otherwise complies with Rule 158 under the Securities Act;
(i) (x) (A) use its reasonable best efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement to be listed on the principal securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed (if any), if and when the listing of such Registrable Securities is then permitted under the rules of such exchange, or (B) if no similar securities are then so listed, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on a national securities exchange and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing take all reasonable actions that may be required by the Company as the issuer of such Registrable Securities in order to facilitate the managing underwriter's arranging for the registration of at least two market makers as such with respect to such shares with FINRA, and (y) comply (and continue to comply) in all material respects with the requirements of any self-regulatory organization applicable to the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic), including all corporate governance requirements;
(j) cooperate with each Participating Holder and each managing underwriter and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA;
(k) use its reasonable best efforts to provide and cause to be maintained a transfer agent and registrar for all such Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement;
 
(l) enter into such customary agreements (including, if applicable, an underwriting agreement in customary form and on customary terms and containing customary provisions regarding indemnification) and take such other actions as the Leading Participating Holders or the underwriters shall reasonably request in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement in accordance with this Agreement, including if necessary the engagement of a Qualified Independent Underwriter in connection with the qualification of the underwriting arrangements with FINRA (it being understood that the Holders of the Registrable Securities which are to be distributed by any underwriters shall be parties to any such underwriting agreement, shall make to and for the benefit of the Company and Mosaic the representations, warranties and covenants of such Holders which are being made to and for the benefit of the underwriters, and may, at their option, require that the Company and Mosaic make to and for the benefit of such Holders the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company and Mosaic which are being made to and for the benefit of such underwriters);
(m) (i) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an opinion from the Company's (and, where applicable, Mosaic's) counsel and a "cold comfort" letter and updates thereof from the Company's (and, where applicable, Mosaic's) independent public accountants who have certified the Company's (and, where applicable, Mosaic's) financial statements included or incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, each in customary form and covering such matters as are customarily covered by such opinions and "cold comfort" letters (including, in the case of such "cold comfort" letter, events subsequent to the date of such financial statements) as the underwriters, if any, participating in the offering reasonably requests, which opinions and letters shall be dated the dates such opinions and "cold comfort" letters are customarily dated and otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the underwriters, if any, and to the sellers, and (ii) furnish to each seller and to each underwriter, if any, participating in the offering, and to Cargill upon Cargill's request, a copy of each such opinion and letter, each of which shall be addressed to both the sellers and the underwriters participating in such offering and, if Cargill is participating in such offering, to Cargill;
(n) deliver promptly to counsel for each Participating Holder and to each managing underwriter, if any, copies of all correspondence between the SEC and the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic), its counsel or auditors and all non-privileged memoranda relating to discussions with the SEC or its staff with respect to any such Registration Statement, and, upon receipt of such confidentiality agreements as the Company (and, where applicable, Mosaic) may reasonably request;
(o) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement, or the prompt lifting of any suspension of the qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction;
(p) provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities, not later than the effective date of any such Registration Statement;
(q) use its reasonable best efforts to make reasonably available its management, employees and personnel for participation in "road shows" and other marketing efforts and otherwise provide reasonable assistance to the underwriters in marketing the Registrable Securities in the Formation Offerings, the Released Share Offering, and any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering;
 
(r) to the extent reasonably practicable, and subject to execution by the prospective recipient of a customary confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company, prior to the filing of any document which is to be incorporated by reference into any such Registration Statement or the prospectus (after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), and prior to the filing of any free writing prospectus, provide copies of such document to counsel for each Leading Participating Holder, and use its reasonable best efforts to make the Company's representatives reasonably available for discussion of such document;
(s) furnish to counsel for each Leading Participating Holder, without charge, at least one conformed copy of any such Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments or supplements thereto, including financial statements (but excluding all schedules and documents incorporated therein by reference), the prospectus contained in such Registration Statement (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus), any other prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act and all exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) and any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, in each case, as filed with the SEC, and provided that the Company (and Mosaic, if applicable) may satisfy such obligation by furnishing an electronic copy thereof or by notifying each Leading Participating Holder of the website address thereof;
(t) reasonably cooperate with the Participating Holders and the managing underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely conversion of shares of Company Class A Common Stock into shares of Company Common Stock, and the timely preparation and delivery of certificates (or equivalent securities in book-entry form) not bearing any restrictive legends (unless required under applicable law) representing the Registrable Securities to be sold, and cause such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names in accordance with the underwriting agreement at least three (3) Business Days prior to any sale of Registrable Securities to the underwriters or, if not an underwritten offering, in accordance with the instructions of the sellers at least three (3) Business Days prior to any sale of Registrable Securities and instruct any transfer agent and registrar of Registrable Securities to release any stop transfer orders in respect thereof, and keep available and make available to the Company's transfer agent prior to the effectiveness of such Registration Statement a supply of such certificates;
(u) promptly make available for inspection, during normal business hours at the offices of the Company and upon reasonable advance notice, by any Leading Participating Holder, Lead Manager or underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to any Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent or representative retained by any such Leading Participating Holder, Lead Manager or underwriter (collectively, the ""), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company (or, where applicable, Mosaic) as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Company's (or, where applicable, Mosaic's) officers, directors and employees to supply all information requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement (which may be subject to the execution by the prospective recipient thereof of a customary confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company) and otherwise reasonably cooperate with the diligence investigation by any such Inspector;
Inspectors
 
(v) take no direct or indirect action prohibited by Regulation M under the Exchange Act; , , that to the extent that any prohibition is applicable to the Company (or, where applicable, Mosaic), the Company (or, where applicable, Mosaic) will take such reasonable action as is necessary and feasible to make any such prohibition inapplicable;
provided
however
(w) take all such other reasonable actions necessary on the part of the Company or Mosaic in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities;
(x) take all such reasonable actions necessary on the part of the Company and Mosaic to ensure that any free writing prospectus utilized in connection with any Registration Statement complies in all material respects with the Securities Act, is filed in accordance with the Securities Act to the extent required thereby and is retained in accordance with the Securities Act to the extent required thereby;
(y) if at any time the information conveyed to a purchaser at the time of sale includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, use its reasonable best efforts to promptly file with the SEC such amendments or supplements to such information as may be necessary so that the statements as so amended or supplemented will not, in light of the circumstances, be misleading; and
(z) if at any time during any Formation Offering Period a Compelling Reason resulting from a Legal Conflict or a Force Majeure Event (as described in clauses (x) or (y), respectively, of such definition) shall have occurred and/or continues to exist, the Company and Mosaic, in each case, shall use best efforts to eliminate as promptly as practicable such Legal Conflict or Force Majeure Event, as the case may be.
If the Company files any Registration Statement for the benefit of the holders of any of its securities other than the Holders, the Company agrees that it shall include in such Registration Statement such disclosures as may be required by Rule 430B under the Securities Act (referring to the unnamed selling security holders in a generic manner by identifying the initial offering of the securities to the Holders) in order to ensure that the Holders may be added to such Shelf Registration Statement at a later time through the filing of a prospectus supplement rather than a post-effective amendment.
The Company may require that each Participating Holder as to which any registration is being effected furnish the Company a selling securityholder questionnaire customary for offerings of this type and that each such Participating Holder and any underwriter furnish the Company such other information regarding themselves and the Registrable Securities held by them as the Company may from time to time reasonably request provided that such information shall be used only in connection with such registration and the Company and Mosaic shall have no responsibility to any Participating Holder with respect to such information included in any Registration Statement, prospectus, amendment or supplement thereto or other document.
2.7. . All Expenses incurred in connection with any offering, registration, filing, qualification or compliance pursuant to Section 2 shall be borne by the Company, whether or not a Registration Statement becomes effective. All Underwriting Fees and transfer taxes, if any, relating to securities registered by the Holders shall be borne by the Holders of such securities pro rata in accordance with the number of shares sold in the offering by such Holders.
Registration Expenses
 
2.8. .
Restrictions on Equity Issuances, Share Repurchases
(a) The Company agrees that, during the period from and after the Closing Date and ending the later of (x) such time as the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred equals or exceeds 49.5 million and (y) the consummation of the Second Formation Offering, but no later than the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Closing Date, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not, directly or indirectly, (1) issue, authorize for issuance, Transfer or otherwise dispose of, or register for issuance, sale, Transfer or other disposition, announce an intention to issue, sell, Transfer or otherwise dispose of, contract or offer to issue, sell, Transfer or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, or any other right to acquire (A) any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, Mosaic or any successor entity of the Company or Mosaic, (B) any options or other securities convertible, exchangeable or redeemable for, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, Mosaic or any successor entity of the Company or Mosaic or (C) any other security or right that may entitle its holder to vote, or participate with respect to dividends or upon liquidation of the Company, Mosaic, or any successor entity of the Company or Mosaic, with the holders of shares of capital stock or other equity interests in the Company, Mosaic or any successor entity of the Company or Mosaic (the securities described in clauses (A), (B) and (C), "") or (2) issue, authorize for issuance, Transfer or otherwise dispose of, offer or enter into any swap, derivative or any other agreement or any transaction that Transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic risks or consequence of ownership of shares of any Equity Securities, whether any such swap or transaction is to be settled by delivery of shares or other securities, in cash or otherwise (any of the actions described in the foregoing clauses (1) and (2), a ""); that the foregoing shall not prohibit, in each case subject to the terms of the Tax Agreement: (i) the consummation of the Merger pursuant to the terms of the Merger and Distribution Agreement; (ii) grants or issuances of equity compensation in the ordinary course pursuant to any employee or director stock plan or other employee or director benefit plan arrangement or employment contract; (iii) the registration, sale, and offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to and in accordance with Sections 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5; (iv) the granting by the Company of registration rights to Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders pursuant to the Debt Exchange Agreements, and the registration, offering and sale of Cargill Registrable Securities transferred to any Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder in the Initial Debt Exchange or any Follow-on Debt Exchange, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of such Debt Exchange Agreements; (v) the issuance (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company) of any shares of Company Common Stock and/or Company Class A Common Stock upon conversion of any shares of Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders or the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off; (vi) one or more Primary Equity Issuances for the account of the Company, if and to the extent that the Board reasonably determines in good faith, after consultation with its financial advisor, evidenced by an officer's certificate delivered to the MAC Trusts and, prior to the Second Formation Offering, Cargill, that (A) the Company requires capital in order to fund its ongoing operations and/or capital expenditure programs and (B) it is advisable for the Company to raise such capital through one or more Primary Equity Issuances;
Equity Securities
Primary Equity Issuance
provided
 
(vii) any Primary Equity Issuance that the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly) and, at any time prior to the Second Formation Offering, Cargill, shall have consented to in writing (such consents not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); (viii) issuances of capital stock by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company to its parent or to another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company or (ix) the issuance of Equity Securities or shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with any shareholder rights agreement of the Company or Mosaic.
(b) The Company agrees that, during the period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the First Lock-up Release Date (the ""), it shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, purchase or acquire any Equity Securities other than purchases by the Company (in each case subject to the terms of the Tax Agreement):
First Lock-up Period
(i) of shares of Company Common Stock in the ordinary course in connection with the exercise or vesting of any equity-based awards under any employee or director stock plan or other employee or director benefit plan arrangement (including in order to pay taxes or satisfy withholding obligations in respect of such taxes in connection with any such exercise or vesting);
(ii) from the MAC Trusts, at any time and from time to time during the First Lock-up Period, shares of Company Common Stock issued upon the conversion of shares of Company Series A-4 Common Stock not to exceed the excess, if any, of (x) 49.5 million over the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred; and
(iii) pursuant to any self tender offer by the Company for shares of Company Stock commenced on or after the twenty-four (24) month anniversary of the Closing Date if, treating all series and classes of Company Stock as one class of securities for this purpose, such self tender offer would comply with the terms and provisions of Rule 13e-4 promulgated under the Exchange Act (whether or not such terms and provisions are otherwise applicable).
2.9. .
Limitations on Registration; No Required Sale
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to register any Registrable Securities pursuant to Sections 2.1(b), 2.1(c), 2.1(d), 2.1(e), 2.2 and 2.3 (in the aggregate) in excess of the sum of (x) 49.5 million (y) the total number of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares. The Company shall not initiate or effect, or participate in, any public offering for cash in a transaction involving an underwriting of shares of Company Stock or other equity securities of the Company (i) for a period of twelve months beginning on the later of the closing of the last Formation Offering and any S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (or after the closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection with such Formation Offering or S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering) and (ii) if the Company effects a public offering or underwriting pursuant to the following proviso, for a period of twelve months beginning on the closing of any such public offering or underwriting (or after the closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection therewith); , that the foregoing shall not prohibit, subject to the terms of the Tax Agreement, one or more public offerings or underwritings of shares of Company Stock or other equity securities of the Company for the
plus
provided
 
account of the Company, if and to the extent that the Board reasonably determines in good faith, after consultation with its financial advisor, evidenced by an officer's certificate delivered to the MAC Trusts and Cargill, that (A) the Company requires additional capital in order to fund its ongoing operations and/or capital expenditure programs and (B) it is necessary (after in good faith considering and taking into account other alternatives available to the Company to raise such capital and the possible negative implications that raising such capital through such public offering or underwriting could have on the ability to timely conduct the first Released Share Offering) for the Company to raise such capital through such public offerings or underwritings.
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, the Company shall be under no obligation to register or list any shares of Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock.
(c) Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create an independent obligation on the part of any Holder to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to any effective Registration Statement.
2.10. .
Indemnification
(a) In the event of any registration and/or offering of any Registrable Securities under the Securities Act pursuant to this Article 2, the Company and Mosaic will, and hereby agree to, and hereby do, jointly and severally, indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Cargill, the MAC Trusts and each other Holder, and their respective directors, officers, fiduciaries, trustees, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners (and the directors, officers, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners thereof), and each Person, if any, who controls Cargill, the MAC Trusts or such other Holder, as applicable, within the meaning of the Securities Act or Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, actions or proceedings (whether commenced or threatened) and expenses (including reasonable fees of counsel and any amounts paid in any settlement effected with the Company's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to which each such indemnified party may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise (collectively, ""), insofar as such Claims arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances in which they were made not misleading, or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary or final prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, together with the documents incorporated by reference therein, or any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Company and Mosaic, jointly and severally, agree to reimburse any such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim that is threatened or commenced (whether or not the indemnified party is designated as an actual or potential party to such Claim) and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above, as such expenses are incurred; , , that neither the Company nor Mosaic shall be liable to any such indemnified party in any such case to the extent such Claim (including any
Claims
provided
however
 
legal or other expenses) arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact made in such Registration Statement or amendment thereof or supplement thereto or in any such prospectus or any preliminary or final prospectus or free writing prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or Mosaic by or on behalf of such indemnified party or any underwriters selected by such indemnified party specifically for use therein. Such indemnity and reimbursement of expenses shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of such indemnified party and shall survive the Transfer of such securities by such Holder.
(b) Each Participating Holder shall, severally and not jointly, indemnify and hold harmless (in the same manner as set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 2.10) to the fullest extent permitted by law each of the Company and Mosaic, each officer of the Company and/or Mosaic who shall sign such Registration Statement, their respective directors, officers, fiduciaries, trustees, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners (and the directors, officers, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners thereof), each Person controlling the Company and/or Mosaic within the meaning of the Securities Act, and any other Holder selling securities in such Registration Statement and each of its directors, officers, partners or agents or any Person who controls such Holder with respect to any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact in, or omission or alleged omission of any material fact from, such Registration Statement, any preliminary or final prospectus contained therein, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, if such statement or alleged statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to any of the Company or Mosaic or any of its representatives by or on behalf of such Participating Holder, specifically for use in connection with the preparation of such Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus, final prospectus, amendment, supplement or free writing prospectus and reimburse such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that the aggregate amount which any such Participating Holder shall be required to pay pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) and Section 2.10(c) shall be in proportion to, and in no case be greater than, the amount of the net proceeds actually received by such Participating Holder upon the sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement giving rise to such Claim. The Company, Mosaic and each Participating Holder hereby acknowledge and agree that, unless otherwise expressly agreed to in writing by such Participating Holders to the contrary, or as otherwise required by SEC rules, for all purposes of this Agreement, the only information furnished or to be furnished to the Company by a Participating Holder for use in any such Registration Statement, preliminary or final prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto or any free writing prospectus are statements specifically relating to (a) the beneficial ownership of shares of capital stock of the Company or Mosaic by such Participating Holder and its Affiliates and (b) the name and address of such Participating Holder. Such indemnity and reimbursement of expenses shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of such indemnified party and shall survive the Transfer of such securities by such Holder.
provided
however
 
(c) Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Agreement shall notify promptly the indemnifying party or parties in writing of the commencement of any action or proceeding with respect to which a claim for indemnification may be made pursuant to this Section 2.10, but the failure of any indemnified party to provide such notice shall not relieve the indemnifying party of its obligations under the preceding paragraphs of this Section 2.10, except to the extent an indemnifying party is materially and actually prejudiced thereby and shall not relieve any indemnifying party from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under this Section 2.10. In case any action or proceeding is brought against an indemnified party, an indemnifying party shall be entitled to (x) participate in such action or proceeding and (y), unless, in the reasonable opinion of outside counsel to the indemnified party, a conflict of interest between such indemnified and indemnifying parties may exist in respect of such claim, assume the defense thereof jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. An indemnifying party shall promptly notify the indemnified party of its decision to participate in such action or proceeding. If, and after, the indemnified party has received such notice from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense of such action or proceeding other than reasonable costs of investigation; , , that (i) if the indemnifying party fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently the action or proceeding within twenty (20) days after receiving notice from such indemnified party that the indemnified party believes it has failed to do so; or (ii) if such indemnified party who is a defendant in any action or proceeding which is also brought against the indemnifying party reasonably shall have concluded that there may be one or more legal or equitable defenses available to such indemnified party which are not available to the indemnifying party or which may conflict with those available to another indemnified party with respect to such Claim; or (iii) if representation of both parties by the same counsel is otherwise inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct, then, in any such case, the indemnified party shall have the right to assume or continue its own defense as set forth above (but with no more than one firm of counsel for all indemnified parties in each jurisdiction, except to the extent any indemnified party or parties reasonably shall have made a conclusion described in clause (ii) or (iii) above) and the indemnifying party shall be liable for any expenses therefor. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or Claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder by such indemnified party (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or Claim) unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any Claims that are the subject of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of such indemnified party.
provided
however
(d) If for any reason the foregoing indemnity is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to an indemnified party or is insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under Section 2.10(a) or Section 2.10(b), then each applicable indemnifying party, severally and not jointly, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable to such indemnified party as a result of any Claim in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party, on the one hand, and the indemnified party, on the other hand, with respect to such Claim as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault shall be determined by a court by reference to, among other things, whether the
 
untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the indemnifying party or the indemnified party and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. If, however, the allocation provided in the second preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative faults but also the relative benefits of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if any contribution pursuant to this Section 2.10(d) were to be determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the preceding sentences of this Section 2.10(d). The amount paid or payable in respect of any Claim shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.10(d) to the contrary, no indemnifying party (other than the Company and Mosaic) shall be required pursuant to this Section 2.10(d) to contribute any amount greater than the amount of the net proceeds actually received by such indemnifying party upon the sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement giving rise to such Claim, less the amount of any indemnification payment made by such indemnifying party pursuant to Section 2.10(b).
(e) The indemnity and contribution agreements contained herein shall be in addition to any other rights to indemnification or contribution which any indemnified party may have pursuant to law or contract and shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made or omitted by or on behalf of any indemnified party and shall survive the Transfer of the Registrable Securities by any such party and the completion of any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement.
3. . The right of any Holder to include its Registrable Securities in any underwritten offering pursuant to this Agreement shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation in the underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided herein. No Holder may participate in such underwriting unless such Holder (x) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements reasonably customary and negotiated for the particular offering by the party specified herein with the underwriter or underwriters selected for such underwriting in accordance with this Agreement and (y) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, custody agreements, opinions and other documents, in each case, in reasonably customary form and negotiated for the particular offering by the party specified herein with the selected underwriters.
Underwritten Offerings
 
4. .
General
4.1.. The Company and Mosaic each covenant that it will use its reasonable best efforts to timely file (including, for this purpose, pursuant to Rule 12b-25(b)(2)(ii) promulgated by the SEC) the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder (or, if the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the request of any Holder, make publicly available other information so long as necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time (""), and it will take such further action as any Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rule 144 or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC, in each case subject to any restrictions on transfer of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the certificate of incorporation of the Company or otherwise. Upon the request of any Holder, the Company (and/or Mosaic, as applicable) will deliver a written statement to such Holder as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
Compliance with Filing Obligations; Rule 144
Rule 144
4.2. . If Registrable Securities are held by a nominee for the beneficial owner thereof, the beneficial owner thereof may, at its option, be treated as the Holder of such Registrable Securities for the purposes of any request or other action by any Holder or Holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement (or any determination of any number or percentage of shares constituting Registrable Securities held by any Holder or Holders of Registrable Securities contemplated by this Agreement), provided that the Company shall have received assurances reasonably satisfactory to it of such beneficial ownership.
Nominees for Beneficial Owners
4.3. . Subject to the next succeeding sentence of this Section 4.3, any provision of this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) only with the written consent of the Company, Mosaic, Cargill and the MAC Trusts (with the MAC Trusts acting jointly). Any amendment, modification or supplement of any provision of this Agreement effected in accordance with this Section 4.3 shall be binding on all parties to this Agreement; provided, however, that, after the Closing Date, no amendment that materially and adversely impacts the rights hereunder of the Holders of Exchanging Cargill Stockholders Registrable Securities in a manner disproportionate to the impact of such amendment on the rights of other Holders shall be binding on the Holders of Exchanging Cargill Stockholders Registrable Securities unless approved by Holders of a majority of the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders Registrable Securities. Any waiver of any breach or default by any other party of any of the terms of this Agreement effected in accordance with this Section 4.3 shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by any party to assert its or his or her rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
Amendments and Waivers
4.4. . Unless otherwise expressly set forth herein, all notices and other communications given or made pursuant hereto shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (i) as of the date delivered, if delivered personally; (ii) on the date the delivering party receives confirmation, if delivered by facsimile or electronic mail; (iii) three (3) Business Days after being mailed by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested); or (iv) one (1) Business Day after being sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery), to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 4.4) or to any other applicable Holder
Notices
at the address for such Holder set forth in a Joinder Agreement executed and delivered by such Holder to the Company, the MAC Trusts and Cargill (or at such other address for a Holder as shall be specified by like notice):
 
GNS II (U.S.) Corp.
The Mosaic Company
Atria Corporate Center, Suite E490
3033 Campus Drive
Plymouth, MN 55441
Attention: Richard L. Mack
 
with a copy (which copy alone shall not constitute notice) to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017-3954
Attention: Casey Cogut, Esq.
                    Eric Swedenburg, Esq.
(b) If to Cargill, to:
Cargill, Incorporated
PO Box 9300
Minneapolis, MN
55440-9300
Attention: Linda Cutler, Esq.
                    Phillip Fantle, Esq.
                    Scott Naatjes, Esq.
with a copy (which copy alone shall not constitute notice) to:
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
One New York Plaza
New York, NY 10004
Attention: Alan Kaden, Esq.
                    Brian Mangino, Esq.
                    Philip Richter, Esq.
 
 
Christine M Morse and Paul G. Bush
as Co-Trustees of the Acorn Trust,
Anne Ray Charitable Trust, Lilac Trust
and Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
6889 Rowland Road
Eden Prarie MN 55344
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Loeb & Loeb LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10154-1895
Attention: David S. Schaefer, Esq.
Loeb & Loeb LLP
10100 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 2200
Los Angeles, CA 90067
Attn: Leah M. Bishop, Esq.
          Stuart P. Tobisman, Esq.
4.5. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all covenants and agreements in this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; , , that no holder or transferee of Registrable Securities shall have any rights of a Holder unless and until such holder or transferee shall have executed and delivered a Joinder Agreement, with copies to the Company, the MAC Trusts and Cargill, and thereupon become a Holder hereunder.
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
4.6. . Except for the indemnified parties under Section 2.10, this Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns and nothing herein express or implied shall give or shall be construed to confer any legal or equitable rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Third Party Beneficiaries
4.7. . This Agreement and the other Transaction Documents constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersede any prior agreement or understanding among them with respect to the matters referred to herein.
Entire Agreement
 
4.8.. If the Merger and Distribution Agreement is terminated at any time prior to the Merger Effective Time, this Agreement shall terminate automatically. Upon the closing of the First Formation Offering, the Existing Registration Rights Agreement shall terminate and shall be void and of no force and effect.
Termination; Existing Registration Rights Agreement
4.9. . This Agreement is governed by and will be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, excluding any conflict-of-laws rule or principle (whether of New York or any other jurisdiction) that might refer the governance or the construction of this Agreement to the law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
4.10. .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a) All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware or, in the event that such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over such action or proceeding, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware, and the parties to this Agreement irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and, in the case of appeals, appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. The consents to jurisdiction set forth in this paragraph shall not constitute general consents to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this paragraph and shall not be deemed to confer rights on any Person other than the parties hereto. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each of the parties to this Agreement consents to service being made through the notice procedures set forth in Section 4.4 and agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail (return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid) to the respective addresses of the parties set forth in Section 4.4 shall be effective service of process for any suit or proceeding in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
(b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
4.11. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
4.12.. In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such provision shall be construed by limiting it so as to be valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent provided by law and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
4.13. .
Specific Performance; Legal Expenses
(a) It is hereby agreed and acknowledged that it will be impossible to measure the money damages that would be suffered if the parties fail to comply with any of the obligations imposed on them by this Agreement and that, in the event of any such failure, an aggrieved party will be irreparably damaged and will not have an adequate remedy at law. Each party hereto shall, therefore, be entitled (in addition to any other remedy to which such party may be entitled at law or in equity) to injunctive relief, including specific performance, to enforce such obligations, without the posting of any bond, and if any action should be brought in equity to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, none of the parties hereto shall raise the defense that there is an adequate remedy at law.
(b) Each party agrees and acknowledges that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the prevailing party in any action or proceeding to enforce this Agreement shall be entitled to recover from the non-prevailing party or parties all court costs, counsel fees, and other costs or expenses incurred by the prevailing party in connection with such action, including in enforcing this Section 4.14 and proving the amounts to which the prevailing party is entitled pursuant hereto.
4.14. . Each party hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts to do and perform or cause to be done and performed all such further acts and things and shall execute and deliver all such other agreements, certificates, instruments, and documents as any other party hereto reasonably may request in order to carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. Each party's respective obligations pursuant to the foregoing shall be subject to, and without prejudice to, (i) the right of Cargill to delay the Closing Date pursuant to the terms of the Merger and Distribution Agreement, (ii) the right of Cargill or Mosaic to terminate the Merger and Distribution Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof, as applicable, and (iii) the right of Cargill or the MAC Trusts to terminate the MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof, as applicable.
Further Assurances
 
, each of the following parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.3
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
TAX AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of January 18, 2011, is by and among The Mosaic Company (""), GNS II (U.S.) Corp., a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic that will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" as of the Closing Date ("") and Cargill, Incorporated ("").
Agreement
Mosaic
M Holdings
Cargill
WHEREAS, pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Merger and Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among M Holdings, Mosaic, GNS Merger Sub LLC, a limited liability company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings (""), and Cargill, as it may be amended from time to time (the ""), on the Closing Date:
Merger Sub
Merger and Distribution Agreement
a) the certificate of incorporation of M Holdings will be amended (such amendment, the "") to, among other things, (x) authorize the issuance of (A) four series of shares of new M Holdings Class A Common Stock, with each share of each such series being entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of M Holdings Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote, (B) three series of shares of new M Holdings Class B Common Stock, with each share of each such series being entitled to ten (10) votes with respect to the election of directors and one (1) vote with respect to all other matters on which the holders of M Holdings Class B Common Stock are entitled to vote, and (C) shares of M Holdings Common Stock, each share of which will be entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of M Holdings Common Stock are entitled to vote; and (y) reclassify all of the shares of capital stock of M Holdings then held by Mosaic into shares of M Holdings Common Stock to be held by Mosaic;
M Holdings Charter Amendment
b) after the effective time of the M Holdings Charter Amendment, Merger Sub will merge with and into Mosaic (the "") (with Mosaic being the surviving corporation in the Merger) pursuant to which (i) Mosaic will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of M Holdings; (ii) a portion of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of the different series of M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Class B Common Stock; and (iii) each of the other outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (including a portion of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill) will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of M Holdings Common Stock; and
Merger
c) as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time, Cargill will consummate a split-off transaction (the "") pursuant to which Cargill will exchange all of the shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock, to be received by it in the Merger (other than the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares) with stockholders of Cargill for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders of Cargill;
Split-off
 
WHEREAS, under the terms of an exchange agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and the MAC Trusts, as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock and M Holdings Common Stock with the MAC Trusts for all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by the MAC Trusts;
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
WHEREAS, under the terms of one or more tender and support agreements, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and certain Exchanging Cargill Stockholders, other than the MAC Trusts, as such agreements may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of M Holdings Class B Common Stock with the signatories of the Tender and Support Agreements for some or all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such Exchanging Cargill Stockholders, other than the MAC Trusts;
Tender and Support Agreements
WHEREAS, Cargill intends that, in connection with the Split-off, it will consummate the Initial Debt Exchange, pursuant to which it will exchange with Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, pursuant to one or more Debt Exchange Agreements, all or a portion of the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares for indebtedness of Cargill then held by such Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders, such Initial Debt Exchange to occur on the Closing Date, as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time;
WHEREAS, it is intended that, on the Closing Date, after the Split-off and the Initial Debt Exchange, M Holdings will effect the First Formation Offering pursuant to which (i) the MAC Trusts will be entitled to offer and sell certain shares of M Holdings Common Stock then held by the MAC Trusts, and (ii) Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders will be entitled to offer and sell certain Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares received by the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders pursuant to the Initial Debt Exchange;
WHEREAS, Mosaic currently is, and through the period ending immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time Mosaic will be, the common parent of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), which currently files consolidated United States federal income tax returns (the "");
Code
Affiliated Group
WHEREAS, as a consequence of the Merger, M Holdings will become the common parent of the Affiliated Group; and
 
WHEREAS, the IRS has issued the Private Letter Ruling concluding, among other things, that (i) the Public Shareholders will not recognize gain or loss on the Merger under Section 351 of the Code, (ii) the Merger, followed by the Split-Off, will be a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, (iii) M Holdings will not recognize gain or loss upon the Merger under Section 1032(a) of the Code, (iv) Distributing will not recognize gain or loss on the Merger under Section 361 of the Code, (v) the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders will not recognize income, gain or loss upon receipt of M Holdings stock in the Split-Off under Section 355(a)(1) of the Code and (vi) Cargill will not recognize income, gain or loss upon the Split-Off and the Debt Exchanges under Section 361(c) of the Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
General
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Affiliated Group
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred
"" shall mean this Tax Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time.
Agreement
"" shall mean any agreement, understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations, as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.355-7(h)(1).
Arrangement
"" shall mean the number of shares of M Holdings Stock, as determined below, that is necessary to prevent one or more persons from being treated as acquiring M Holdings Stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in M Holdings as part of the plan (or series of related transactions) including the Split-off (as such terms are used or defined in Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder), assuming the entire M Holdings Transferable Share Allotment (calculated without regard to clause (vi) thereof) has been Transferred. In determining whether a Basket Reduction Amount is necessary, any Transfer of M Holdings Stock made by an Exchanging Cargill Shareholder (other than the MAC Trusts) shall not be taken into account. The Basket Reduction Amount shall be zero unless, prior to the second anniversary of the Closing, Cargill issues a written notice to M Holdings setting forth a proposed increase in the Basket Reduction Amount and explaining the reasons therefore, including any supporting calculations (the "Reduction Notice"). Following a Reduction Notice, Cargill and M Holdings shall promptly meet to discuss the issues described in the Reduction Notice. If Cargill and M Holdings agree to increase the Basket Reduction Amount, then from and after the date on which such agreement is reached, the amount so agreed shall be the "Basket Reduction Amount." If Cargill and
Basket Reduction Amount
 
M Holdings do not agree to a Basket Reduction Amount, then the Basket Reduction Amount shall be zero unless, within ten (10) business days of such failure to agree, Cargill obtains (and provides a copy to M Holdings) a written opinion by a nationally recognized accounting or law firm to the effect that it is more likely than not that one or more persons would be treated as acquiring stock of M Holdings representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in M Holdings as part of the plan (or series of related transactions) including the Split-off (as such terms are used or defined in Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder), assuming the entire M Holdings Transferable Share Allotment (calculated without regard to clause (vi) thereof) has been Transferred. If Cargill receives such an opinion, then from and after the date such opinion is provided to M Holdings, the "Basket Reduction Amount" shall be the number reflected in the Reduction Notice (or such lower number reflected in the opinion). For the avoidance of doubt, any increase in the Basket Reduction Amount shall apply only to Transfers of M Holdings Stock after the date of the increase and shall not apply to any Transfers of M Holdings Stock prior to the date of the increase.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Bring Down Tax Opinion
"" shall mean any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Cargill
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares
"" shall mean the Revenue Procedure 96-30 Checklist attached as Appendix 2 to the IRS Ruling Submission.
Checklist
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the M Holdings Charter.
Class B Conversion Approval
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Code
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Debt Exchange Agreements
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Debt Exchanges
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement; provided that, prior to the Closing, such term shall apply only with respect to Equity Securities of Mosaic.
Equity Securities
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Exchanging Cargill Stockholders
"" shall mean the fertilizer business conducted by Mosaic and relied upon in the IRS Ruling Submission to satisfy the five-year active trade or business requirement of Section 355(b)(1)(A) of the Code.
Fertilizer Business
"" shall mean the final resolution of any Tax Loss or potential Tax Loss by or as a result of: (i) a final and un-appealable decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Section 7121 or 7122 of the Code, or comparable agreement under the laws of other jurisdictions which resolves the amount of the Tax Loss; or (iii) any allowance of a refund or credit in respect of an overpayment of Tax, but only after the expiration of all periods during which such refund may be recovered by the jurisdiction imposing the Tax.
Final Determination
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
First Formation Offering
"" means the first day after the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Closing Date.
First Lock-up Release Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Formation Offerings
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Initial Debt Exchange
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(g).
IMC
"" shall mean the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" shall mean the request for rulings submitted by Cargill to the IRS, dated December 21, 2009, including the exhibits and supplements thereto and all other submissions, documents, materials or other information submitted to the IRS in connection with such request for rulings or any supplemental rulings related to the Transactions.
IRS Ruling Submission
 
"" means the actual knowledge of any of Messrs. James T. Prokopanko, Lawrence W. Stranghoener, Richard L. Mack or Todd Madden or any successor to the position occupied by such persons or any similar position in the event that the position currently occupied by such person is eliminated or replaced by another position. It is agreed and acknowledged that each of the foregoing persons shall also be deemed to have actual knowledge of all information contained in Schedules 13G and Schedule 13D, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC in respect of the shares of Mosaic or M Holdings Common Stock.
Knowledge of Mosaic
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Law
"" shall mean M Holdings Common Stock and M Holdings Class A Common Stock, collectively.
Low-Vote Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
M Holdings
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b).
M Holdings Allotment Consent
"" shall mean the activites conducted directly and indirectly by M Holdings and its Subsidiaries prior to the Merger.
M Holdings Business
"" shall mean the M Holdings' amended and restated certificate of incorporation attached as Exhibit B to the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Charter
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
M Holdings Charter Amendment
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Class A Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Class B Common Stock
"" shall mean the shares of M Holdings Common Stock owned by Mosaic immediately following the Merger.
M Holdings Hook Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
M Holdings Stock
 
"" shall mean, as calculated from time to time, a number of shares of M Holdings Stock equal to (A) 45% of the excess of the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number over the aggregate number of shares of M Holdings Stock redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by M Holdings on or after the Closing Date (including Permitted Redemptions) less (B) the sum of (i) the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares, (ii) the Mosaic Employee Award Amount, (iii) the Mosaic Redemption Amount, (iv) the Mosaic Issued Amount, (v) 49.5 million, and (vi) the Basket Reduction Amount; for the avoidance of doubt, the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment will be calculated as if the M Holdings Hook Stock is not outstanding.
M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment
"" shall mean the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Anne Ray Charitable Trust, the Acorn Trust and the Lilac Trust.
MAC Trusts
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
"" shall mean the shares of M Holdings Common Stock and M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock to be received by the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-Off, including any shares of M Holdings Common Stock issued upon the conversion of shares of M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, the MAC Trusts Transferrable Share Allotment shall equal a total of 49,500,000 shares of M Holdings Stock.
MAC Trusts Transferrable Share Allotment
"" shall mean the Master Services Agreement between Cargill and Mosaic and pursuant to which all payments are determined on a fair market value basis.
Master Services Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger and Distribution Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Merger Effective Time
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger Sub
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Mosaic
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Common Stock
"" shall mean that number of shares equal to the maximum number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock (or, as a result of the assumption by M Holdings of Mosaic Plans pursuant to Section 3.5 of the Merger and Distribution Agreement, of M Holdings Stock) that could potentially be issued pursuant to options, restricted stock units, and other equity awards granted or agreed to be granted by Mosaic within the period beginning two years prior to the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, including, for the avoidance of doubt awards described in Section 7.1(a)(iii)(y) of the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Employee Award Amount
 
"" shall mean the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock that were the subject of any Primary Equity Issuance within the period beginning two years prior to the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, including, for the avoidance of doubt Mosaic Common Stock described in Section 7.1(a)(iii)(x) of the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Issued Amount
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Outstanding Share Number
"" shall mean Mosaic, M Holdings and Merger Sub.
Mosaic Parties
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Plans
"" shall mean the number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by Mosaic within the period beginning two years prior to the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date.
Mosaic Redemption Amount
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Shareholder Approval
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Mosaic Stock
"" shall mean the certificate of officers of each of the Mosaic Parties dated the Closing Date containing the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number, the Reclassified Share Number, and the representations contained in Section 2.01(a)-(gg), and confirming such representations have been true at all times since the date of this Agreement, provided to Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP in connection with the Bring-Down Tax Opinion.
Mosaic Tax Certificate
"" shall mean (i) the conversion of M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock into M Holdings Common Stock, (ii) the conversion of M Holdings Class B Common Stock into Low-Vote Shares pursuant to a Class B Conversion Approval, and (iii) the conversion of M Holdings Class A Common Stock into M Holdings Common Stock with respect to which M Holdings granted an M Holdings Allotment Consent in accordance with and solely to the extent permitted by Section 2.03(b).
Permitted Conversion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(b)(ii).
Permitted Employee Redemption
"" shall mean any Primary Equity Issuance other than (i) the Transfer of shares of M Holdings Stock by the MAC Trusts or the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders in an Underwritten Offering or in a Section 2.2 Sale, (ii) the issuance of shares of M Holdings Stock to Cargill and the Public Shareholders pursuant to the Merger, and (iii) any Permitted Conversions.
Permitted Equity Issuance
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(b)(i).
Permitted MAC Trust Redemption
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(b).
Permitted Redemption
"" shall mean the distribution of shares of M Holdings Stock by (i) the Acorn Trust to the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation in accordance with the terms of the governing trust agreement of the Acorn Trust and (ii) by the Lilac Trust to the Anne Ray Charitable Trust in accordance with the terms of the governing trust agreement of the Lilac Trust.
Permitted Trust Distributions
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Primary Equity Issuance
"" shall mean the private letter ruling issued by the IRS, dated November 15, 2010 and any supplemental rulings issued by the IRS pursuant to the IRS Ruling Submission.
Private Letter Ruling
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.05.
Prohibited Acts
"" shall mean any acquisition of shares of M Holdings Stock for cash if (i) the terms of the acquisition are established by Mosaic, M Holdings or the transferor with the involvement of one or more investment bankers and (ii) the potential acquirers have no opportunity to negotiate the terms of the acquisition. For example, a "Public Offering" includes an underwritten offering of M Holdings Common Stock for cash.
Public Offering
"" shall mean the public shareholders (including directors, officers and employees of M Holdings, Mosaic and their Subsidiaries) of Mosaic and, immediately following the Merger, of M Holdings. For the avoidance of doubt, Public Shareholders shall not include Cargill and/or any of its Subsidiaries.
Public Shareholders
"" shall mean the twelve (12) month period beginning upon the closing of the last Underwritten Offering (including the closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection with such Underwritten Offering); provided, however, that if a Section 2.9(a) Offering occurs after the last Underwritten Offering, the "Quiet Period" shall be extended until twelve (12) months after the closing of the last Section 2.9(a) Offering (including the closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection with such Section 2.9(a) Offering).
Quiet Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Reclassified Share Number
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Basket Reduction Amount.
Reduction Notice
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Registration Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Agreement.
Released Share Offering
"" shall mean a separate affiliated group as defined in Section 355(b)(3)(B) of the Code.
SAG
"" shall mean any sale by a MAC Trust of shares of M Holdings Stock pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Registration Agreement.
Section 2.2 Sale
"" shall mean a Primary Equity Issuance pursuant to the proviso in Section 2.9(a) of the Registration Agreement.
Section 2.9(a) Offering
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Share Number Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Split-off
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which more than 50% of the shares of the voting securities or other voting interests are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than 50% of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries; , that, for the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, none of Mosaic or M Holdings nor any of their respective Subsidiaries shall be considered to be "Subsidiaries" of Cargill or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Mosaic and M Holdings and their respective Subsidiaries).
Subsidiary
provided, however
"" shall mean any request for one or more rulings submitted by Cargill to the IRS, after the date of the Private Letter Ruling, including the exhibits thereto and all other submissions, documents, materials or other information submitted to the IRS in connection with such request for ruling(s), concerning matters reasonably related to the Transactions.
Supplemental Ruling Request
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Tax
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.10.
Tax Controversy
"" shall mean any and all Taxes based on income or gain that are imposed on Cargill and/or its Subsidiaries (including reasonable out-of-pocket attorneys' and other professional fees and expenses in connection with defending against the imposition of any Taxes (collectively, the "Out of Pocket Expenses")) net of any corresponding U.S. federal income Tax benefits actually received by Cargill and/or its Subsidiaries arising solely from the deduction of (i) any state or local income taxes paid with respect to such income or gain and/or (ii) any Out of Pocket Expenses.
Tax Losses
 
"" shall mean any return, report or similar statement filed or required to be filed with respect to any Tax (including any attached schedules), including, without limitation, any information return, claim for refund, amended return or declaration of estimated Tax.
Tax Return
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Tender and Support Agreements
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Transactions
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" or "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Transfer
Transferred
"" shall mean the income tax regulations, including temporary and proposed regulations, promulgated under the Code by the United States Treasury, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including corresponding provisions of succeeding regulations).
Treasury Regulations
"" shall mean either a Formation Offering (as defined in the Registration Agreement) or an S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering (as defined in the Registration Agreement).
Underwritten Offering
. The Mosaic Parties jointly and severally represent and warrant to Cargill that the following representations are true, correct and complete as of the date of this Agreement (or as of such specific date or dates in the case of any representation or warranty expressly made as of a specific date or dates):
SECTION 2.01
Tax Representations of the Mosaic Parties
(a) To the Knowledge of Mosaic, all facts, statements and representations contained in the IRS Ruling Submission and the Checklist, except those facts, statements and representations contained in Sections I.D.1, II.10 (other than clauses (v) through (viii)), II.11, II.32, II.33 and IV.D.4 (other than clauses (v) through (viii)) of the IRS Ruling Submission and in Section 4.04(1) of the Checklist, are true, correct and complete insofar as they regard Mosaic, M Holdings and/or any of their respective Subsidiaries and were and are true, correct and complete insofar as they regard Mosaic, M Holdings and/or any of their respective Subsidiaries at all times from December 21, 2009 through the date of this Agreement (or as of such specific date or dates in the case of any representation or
 
warranty expressly made as of a specific date or dates); provided that references to "Controlled" in the IRS Ruling Submission and the Checklist shall be understood to refer to GNS II (U.S.) Corp. and not to a newly organized corporation, and any facts, statements, and representations relating to "Controlled" as a newly organized corporation shall be ignored.
(b) There are no facts to the Knowledge of Mosaic that would cause the Merger (i) not to be a single, isolated transaction or (ii) to be part of a plan to periodically increase the proportional interest of any shareholder in the assets or earnings and profits of Mosaic, or, after the Merger, M Holdings.
(c) Mosaic is not (and after the Merger M Holdings will not be) under the jurisdiction of a Title 11 or similar case within the meaning of Section 368(a)(3)(A) of the Code.
(d) M Holdings has no (i) legally binding obligation to any Person to consider or present to the M Holdings shareholders a proposal to convert the M Holdings Class B Common Stock to Low-Vote Shares following the consummation of the Split-off, or (ii) agreement with any Mosaic shareholder (or person who will become an M Holdings shareholder pursuant to the Split-off) as to how such shareholder would vote if a proposal to convert the M Holdings Class B Common Stock to Low-Vote Shares following the consummation of the Split-off was presented to the M Holdings shareholders (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, any proxy given by any such shareholder in connection with the vote on such proposal once presented).
(e) If a proposal to convert the M Holdings Class B Common Stock to Low-Vote Shares is approved by the M Holdings board of directors and presented to the M Holdings shareholders, a vote by a majority of all three classes of M Holdings shares voting together as a single class (with each share having one vote) represented in person or by proxy at the shareholder meeting will be required for the proposal to be approved.
(f) To the Knowledge of Mosaic, prior to the Split-off no Cargill stockholder has acquired Mosaic stock pursuant to a plan (or series of related transactions) described in Section 355(e)(2)(A)(ii) that includes the Split-off.
(g) The five years of financial information submitted to the IRS in connection with the IRS Ruling Submission on behalf of the Fertilizer Business (as conducted by the Mosaic SAG) is representative of the present operations of the Fertilizer Business, and, with regard to such business, there have been no substantial operational changes since the date of the last financial statements submitted, provided that (i) Mosaic was formed to serve as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 22, 2004 business combination of IMC Global Inc. ("") and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the five years of financial information includes the combined operations of IMC and the businesses acquired from Cargill beginning October 23, 2004 but for periods prior to October 23, 2004 includes only the businesses acquired from Cargill, and (ii) on November 30, 2009, Mosaic announced that it was realigning its business segments to more clearly reflect its evolving business model by combining its offshore business segment with its phosphates business segment.
IMC
 
(h) The financial information submitted to the IRS in connection with the IRS Ruling Submission relating to the M Holdings Business is representative of the present operations of M Holdings, and there have been no substantial operational changes since the date of the financial information submitted, provided that (i) a Subsidiary of GNS II (U.S.) Corp. acquired a 35% economic interest in a joint venture that owns a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region of Peru, and entered into a commercial offtake supply agreement with the joint venture, and (ii) prior to the Closing, M Holdings may distribute to Mosaic certain assets, including cash or an intercompany receivable, and the stock of two subsidiaries noted in such IRS Ruling Submission.
(i) Neither Mosaic nor M Holdings has any plan or intention to discontinue (i) the active conduct of the Fertilizer Business or (ii) the M Holdings Business.
(j) The Split-off is expected to result in the following corporate business benefits for M Holdings and Mosaic: (i) to allow M Holdings additional strategic flexibility to pursue its business interests independent of Cargill; (ii) to enhance M Holdings' ability to use M Holdings Common Stock as acquisition currency, as a means of raising capital and for employee compensation; (iii) to facilitate the inclusion of M Holdings in the S&P 500 index; and (iv) to remove regulatory limitations that affect M Holdings' ability to expand its business. The Split-off is motivated, from Mosaic's perspective, in whole or substantial part, by one or more of these corporate business purposes.
(k) Except for obligations for payments under certain agreements that will be effective for periods after the Closing or incurred in the ordinary course, no intercorporate debt will exist between Cargill and M Holdings at the time of, or subsequent to, the Split-off.
(l) Except for certain payments that may be made in connection with this Agreement and the Master Services Agreement, payments made in connection with all continuing transactions, if any, between members of the Cargill group and members of the M Holdings group will be for approximately fair market value based on terms and conditions arrived at by the parties bargaining at arm's length.
(m) Neither Mosaic nor M Holdings will be an investment company as defined in Section 368(a)(2)(F)(iii) and (iv) of the Code or Section 351(e) of the Code and Treasury Regulation 1.351-1(c)(1)(ii).
(n) Cash payments made by Cargill in lieu of fractional shares of M Holdings stock are for the purpose of avoiding the expense and inconvenience to M Holdings of issuing fractional shares and do not represent separately bargained for consideration.
(o) Other than acquisitions or Transfers contemplated by and effected in accordance with the terms of the Transaction Documents, Mosaic and M Holdings have not entered into any Arrangement to acquire or issue any shares of Mosaic stock or M Holdings Stock.
 
(p) Immediately after the transaction (as defined in Section 355(g)(4) of the Code) M Holdings will not be a disqualified investment corporation (within the meaning of Section 355(g)(2) of the Code).
(q) Immediately prior to the Split-off, the only outstanding stock of M Holdings not held by Cargill will be shares of M Holdings Common Stock held by the Public Shareholders and the M Holdings Hook Stock.
(r) There is no plan or intention to liquidate M Holdings, to merge M Holdings with any other corporation, or to sell or otherwise dispose of the assets of M Holdings after the Closing, with the exception of (i) dispositions in the ordinary course of business, and (ii) M Holdings' transfer of some or all of its assets and liabilities to Mosaic.
(s) (i) No stock or securities of M Holdings will be issued for services rendered to or for the benefit of M Holdings in connection with the proposed transaction, and (ii) no stock or securities of M Holdings will be issued for indebtedness of M Holdings that is not evidenced by a security or for interest on indebtedness of M Holdings which accrued on or after the beginning of the holding period for the debt.
(t) The Public Shareholders will not retain any rights in the Mosaic Stock transferred to M Holdings in the Merger.
(u) There is no debt or other liabilities relating to the Mosaic Common Stock being transferred to M Holdings by the Public Shareholders that is being assumed or to which such Mosaic Common Stock is subject.
(v) There will be no indebtedness of M Holdings created in favor of the Public Shareholders as a result of the Merger.
(w) There is no plan or intention on the part of M Holdings to redeem or otherwise reacquire any stock to be issued in the Transactions. The MAC Trusts may request that M Holdings purchase from the MAC Trusts a number of shares of M Holdings Stock equal to the excess of 49.5 million over the aggregate shares of M Holdings previously transferred by the MAC Trusts.
(x) To the Knowledge of Mosaic, the Public Shareholders have not entered into a binding commitment to sell shares of M Holdings stock that would result in the Public Shareholders and Cargill ceasing to be in "control" of M Holdings within the meaning of Section 368(c) of the Code "immediately after the Merger" (within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code), disregarding for this purpose the Split-off and Debt Exchanges. Neither Mosaic nor M Holdings will issue additional shares of M Holdings stock, or permit the exercise of M Holdings stock rights, warrants or subscriptions, that would result in the Public Shareholders and Cargill ceasing to be in "control" of M Holdings within the meaning of Section 368(c) of the Code "immediately after the Merger" (within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code), disregarding for this purpose the Split-off and Debt Exchanges.
 
(y) Each Public Shareholder will receive stock, securities or other property approximately equal to the fair market value of the property transferred to M Holdings.
(z) M Holdings has no plan or intention to terminate its existence or Mosaic's existence, and will use the property transferred to it (the Mosaic Common Stock) in the Merger, directly or indirectly, in a trade or business.
(aa) There is no plan or intention by M Holdings to dispose of the Mosaic Stock it will receive in the Merger other than in the normal course of business operations.
(bb) Aside from the reimbursement of up to $15 million of Mosaic's out-of-pocket expenses by Cargill, each of M Holdings and Mosaic will pay its own expenses, if any, incurred in connection with the Transactions.
(cc) In the two year period preceding the Split-off, there have been no Primary Equity Issuances other than grants and/or issuances to employees and directors of equity compensation for services rendered or anticipated to be rendered in the ordinary course pursuant to an employee or director stock plan or other employee or director benefit plan arrangement or employment contract.
(dd) Other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries, Mosaic does not have (i) any shareholder(s) that, to the Knowledge of Mosaic, beneficially own(s), directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock and actively participate(s) in the management or operation of Mosaic (including by being a director thereof) or (ii) to the Knowledge of Mosaic, any shareholder(s) or coordinating group(s) (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.355-7(h)(4)) that beneficially own(s), directly or indirectly 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock.
(ee) The transfer of Mosaic stock to M Holdings by the Public Shareholders pursuant to the Merger is not the result of the solicitation by a promoter, broker, or investment house; provided that, a proxy solicitor may be engaged in connection with the vote of the Public Shareholders with respect to the Transaction.
(ff) Other than (A) options or restricted stock units granted or agreed to be granted by Mosaic (i) after January 18, 2009 and included in the Mosaic Employee Award Amount and (ii) before January 18, 2009, and (B) cash-settled stock appreciation rights granted or agreed to be granted by Mosaic to employees or directors, Mosaic does not have outstanding and is not under any obligation, contingent or otherwise, with respect to, any preemptive or other rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interests in Mosaic.
(gg) M Holdings is not a personal service corporation within the meaning of Section 269A of the Code.
 
.
SECTION 2.02
Buybacks of Equity Securities
(a) Subject to Section 2.02(b), from the date hereof through the second anniversary of the Closing Date, neither M Holdings nor Mosaic shall, and each shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase or otherwise acquire any Equity Securities. From the second anniversary of the Closing Date through the First Lock-up Release Date, M Holdings shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase or otherwise acquire any Equity Securities other than acquisitions of shares of M Holdings Stock pursuant to Section 2.8(b)(iii) of the Registration Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 2.02(a), (i) prior to the First Lock-Up Release Date, M Holdings may purchase or otherwise acquire from the MAC Trusts  solely out of the MAC Trusts Transferrable Share Allotment  shares of M Holdings Common Stock issued upon the conversion of shares of M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock not to exceed the excess, if any, of (x) 49,500,000 over (y) the Aggregate MAC Shares Transferred (""), and (ii) subject to Section 2.04, solely out of the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment, M Holdings may purchase or otherwise acquire shares of M Holdings Common Stock in the ordinary course in connection with the exercise or vesting of equity-based awards granted under any employee or director benefit plan or other employee or director benefit plan arrangement of M Holdings (including in order to pay taxes or satisfy withholding obligations in respect of such taxes in connection with such exercises or vesting) ("" and together with Permitted MAC Trust Redemptions, ""). M Holdings shall provide reasonable notice to Cargill prior to any Permitted MAC Trust Redemption and shall provide notice to Cargill on a quarterly basis of all Permitted Employee Redemptions that occurred during such quarter.
Permitted MAC Trust Redemptions
Permitted Employee Redemptions,
Permitted Redemptions
.
SECTION 2.03
Consent to Transfers by MAC Trusts
(a) From the date hereof through the second anniversary of the Closing Date, neither M Holdings nor Mosaic shall consent to a Transfer of Equity Securities by the MAC Trusts other than pursuant to Section 2.03(b).
(b) During the period from the Closing Date through the second anniversary of the Closing Date, M Holdings may consent in writing (a "") to a Transfer of M Holdings Stock by the MAC Trusts solely out of the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment and only to the extent the sum of (i) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock for which consent is being sought to Transfer pursuant to this Section 2.03(b), (ii) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock for which a M Holdings Allotment Consent was previously granted pursuant to this Section 2.03(b), and (iii) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock previously Transferred pursuant to Section 2.04, does not exceed the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment. As an illustration, a M Holdings Allotment Consent may be granted (subject to the terms and conditions of the M Holdings Charter and the Transaction Documents) to permit the MAC Trusts to sell in excess of 49.5 million shares in an Underwritten Offering or in a privately negotiated transaction, subject to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of
M Holdings Allotment Consent
 
this Section 2.03(b). M Holdings shall provide reasonable notice to Cargill prior to granting any M Holdings Allotment Consent to the Transfer of shares of M Holdings Stock by any of the MAC Trusts indicating that the proposed consent is a M Holdings Allotment Consent and describing the number of shares of M Holdings Stock subject to such proposed consent and the terms of the Transfer for which such consent is being granted; following the completion of such Transfer M Holdings shall provide notice to Cargill indicating the Transfer has been completed.
(c) Nothing in this Section 2.03 shall be interpreted to permit M Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries to purchase or otherwise acquire any Equity Securities not explicitly permitted under Section 2.02.
SECTION 2.04
Permitted Equity Issuances and Permitted Employee Redemptions.
(a) From the date hereof through the second anniversary of the Closing Date, solely out of the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment, M Holdings shall be permitted to make a Permitted Equity Issuance or Permitted Employee Redemption only to the extent the sum of (i) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock proposed to be Transferred pursuant to this Section 2.04 in the proposed Permitted Equity Issuance or Permitted Employee Redemption, (ii) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock previously Transferred pursuant to this Section 2.04 in a Permitted Equity Issuance or Permitted Employee Redemption, and (iii) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock for which a M Holdings Allotment Consent shall have been granted pursuant to Section 2.03(b), does not exceed the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment, calculated as if any such proposed Permitted Equity Issuance or Permitted Employee Redemption had occurred. For the avoidance of doubt and to avoid duplication, shares of M Holdings Stock issued within the two year period following the Closing Date pursuant to options, restricted stock units and other equity awards described in the definition of "Mosaic Employee Award Amount" shall not be subject to the limitations of this Section 2.04, to the extent that such shares are taken into account in determining the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment.
(b) Following the completion of a Permitted Equity Issuance (other than to one or more employees) M Holdings shall promptly notify Cargill of the number of shares of M Holdings Stock issued in such Permitted Equity Issuance. M Holdings shall provide notice to Cargill on a quarterly basis of all Permitted Equity Issuances made to employees during such quarter.
 
.
SECTION 2.05
Prohibited Acts
(a) From the Closing Date through the second anniversary thereof (other than in the case of clause (ix), which shall apply through the end of the Quiet Period), M Holdings shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, and shall not authorize or permit any other Person acting on behalf of M Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly (each of the following actions, a ""):
Prohibited Act
(i) enter into, or be a party to, any Arrangement, pursuant to which any Person would, directly or indirectly, acquire or have the right to acquire any Equity Securities (or increase or have the right to increase such Person's ownership interest in Mosaic or M Holdings by vote or by value), however effected; provided, however, that the following shall not be a Prohibited Act:
(1) Transfers of shares of M Holdings Stock by the MAC Trusts solely out of the MAC Trusts Transferrable Share Allotment (and the related conversion of shares of M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock),
(2) Transfers of Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares by Cargill or an Exchanging Cargill Debt Holder,
(3) Permitted MAC Trust Redemptions in accordance with, and solely to the extent permitted by, Section 2.02(b)(i) (and the related conversion of shares of M Holdings Series A-4 Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock),
(4) the granting of a M Holdings Allotment Consent in accordance with, and solely to the extent permitted by, Section 2.03(b) (and the related conversion of shares of M Holdings Class A Common Stock into shares of M Holdings Common Stock),
(5) Permitted Employee Redemptions in accordance with, and solely to the extent permitted by, Section 2.04,
(6) Permitted Equity Issuances in accordance with, and solely to the extent permitted by, Section 2.04,
(7) Transfers of M Holdings Shares permitted by the definition of Permitted Transfer in the M Holdings Charter other than pursuant to clause (A) of such definition, and
(8) A conversion of M Holdings Class B Common Stock to Low-Vote Shares pursuant to a Class B Conversion Approval, whenever effected.
(ii) (A) approve or recommend any third party tender offer or exchange offer for M Holdings Stock or (B) cause or permit any merger, reorganization, combination, or consolidation of Mosaic or M Holdings with or into any Person, or any liquidation or partial liquidation of Mosaic or M Holdings;
(iii) take any action that would cause any share of M Holdings Hook Stock not to be considered outstanding for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
 
(iv) subdivide (by any stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) or combine (by reverse stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) the outstanding shares of M Holdings Common Stock, M Holdings Class A Common Stock (or any series thereof) or M Holdings Class B Common Stock (or any series thereof) (other than Permitted Conversions);
(v) cause or permit Mosaic or M Holdings to be treated as other than a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
(vi) cause the M Holdings SAG to fail to be engaged in the conduct of the Fertilizer Business;
(vii) reclassify, exchange or convert any shares of M Holdings Stock into another class or series of M Holdings Stock (other than the issuance of M Holdings Stock to Cargill and the Public Shareholders pursuant to the Merger and Permitted Conversions);
(viii) amend, alter or change the voting rights of any shares of M Holdings Stock other than a conversion of M Holdings Class B Common Stock into Low-Vote Shares pursuant to a Class B Conversion Approval;
(ix) during any Quiet Period, initiate, effect, or participate in, any Public Offering of shares of M Holdings Stock other than a Section 2.9(a) Offering; provided that if a Section 2.9(a) Offering occurs, M Holdings shall not initiate, effect or participate in, the first Released Share Offering until twelve (12) months have elapsed from the later of the closing of the last Underwritten Offering or a Section 2.9(a) Offering (including the closing of all sales of shares pursuant to any overallotment option granted to underwriters in connection with any such offering);
(x) other than with respect to the shares of M Holdings Stock (i) distributed by Cargill to its shareholders or debt holders, (ii) purchased in a Underwritten Offering or (iii) purchased in any Section 2.2 Sale, or any actions taken in connection therewith, knowingly facilitate the acquisition of M Holdings Stock by any Person or coordinating group (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.355-7(h)(4)) (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) including by furnishing any material, non-public information concerning any Mosaic Party to any such Person or coordinating group, if, to the Knowledge of Mosaic, such acquisition would result in any Person or coordinating group beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the outstanding shares of M Holdings Common Stock;
(xi) other than with respect to the shares of M Holdings Stock (i) distributed by Cargill to its shareholders or debt holders, (ii) purchased in an Underwritten Offering or (iii) purchased in any Section 2.2 Sale, or any actions taken in connection therewith, knowingly facilitate the participation in management or operation of M Holdings (including by becoming a director of M Holdings) by a Person or coordinating group (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.355-7(h)(4)) (other than Cargill and its Subsidiaries) who, to the Knowledge of Mosaic, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly 5% or more of the outstanding shares of M Holdings Common Stock; or
 
(xii) Elect to treat GNS Merger Sub LLC as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, acquisitions of M Holdings Stock that would otherwise constitute Prohibited Acts pursuant to clauses (x) and (xi) above shall not constitute Prohibited Acts to the extent the sum of (A) the number of shares of M Holdings Stock acquired in such acquisition, and (B), without duplication, the number of shares described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.04, does not exceed the M Holdings Transferrable Share Allotment. Any shares described in clause (A) of the preceding sentence shall thereafter be included in clause (ii) of Section 2.04.
(b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 2.05(a) to the contrary, M Holdings may take any of the foregoing Prohibited Acts after receipt by M Holdings at its sole expense of an opinion satisfactory to Cargill to the effect that such action will not result in any of the events listed in Section 2.07(a)(i) through 2.07(a)(v).
SECTION 2.06
Additional Covenants of the Mosaic Parties.
(a) None of the Mosaic Parties shall knowingly take any action that could cause any of the Mosaic Parties not to be able to deliver the Mosaic Tax Certificate.
(b) On the Share Number Date, Mosaic shall furnish Cargill with an estimate of the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number, the Mosaic Employee Award Amount, the Mosaic Redemption Amount and the Mosaic Issued Amount and all of the facts, information, and calculations used in calculating such numbers.
(c) The Mosaic Outstanding Share Number delivered to Cargill immediately prior to the Closing (pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(i) of the Merger and Distribution Agreement) shall accurately reflect (i) the aggregate number of shares of Mosaic Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to Closing and (ii) that there are no shares of Mosaic stock outstanding other than the Mosaic Common Stock described in clause (i).
(d) Within 10 Business Days after the Closing Date, M Holdings shall furnish to Cargill a true, accurate and complete final schedule of the M Holdings Transferable Share Allotment as of the Closing Date (based on the Mosaic Outstanding Share Number delivered by Mosaic to Cargill immediately prior to the Closing (pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Merger and Distribution Agreement) and the Cargill Retained M Holdings Shares calculated by Cargill and provided to M Holdings pursuant to Section 2.2(b) of the Merger and Distribution Agreement), the Mosaic Employee Award Amount, the Mosaic Redemption Amount, and the Mosaic Issued Amount and all of the facts, information, and calculations used in calculating such numbers.
 
SECTION 2.07
Tax Indemnity.
(a) Mosaic and M Holdings shall, jointly and severally, indemnify and hold harmless Cargill and/or any of its Subsidiaries from and against any Tax Losses suffered by Cargill and/or any of its Subsidiaries attributable to, arising out of, or resulting from any of the following events listed in clauses (i) through (v) below if and to the extent any such event is or was attributable to, arises out of or results from (x) any Prohibited Act (including Prohibited Acts for which M Holdings has obtained an opinion under Section 2.05(b)) or (y) any breach or inaccuracy of any representation, warranty or covenant made by any Mosaic Party pursuant to this Agreement or the Mosaic Tax Certificate.
(i) the Split-off failing to qualify under Section 355(a)(1) of the Code,
(ii) the Debt Exchanges failing to qualify under Section 361(c) of the Code by reason of the Split-off failing to qualify under Section 355(a)(1) of the Code,
(iii) the Merger failing to constitute a tax-free exchange to Cargill,
(iv) the Merger together with the Split-off failing to constitute a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, or
(v) any failure of any shares of M Holdings Stock (including stock transferred pursuant to Section 361(c)(3) of the Code) to qualify as "qualified property" within the meaning of Section 361(c)(2) of the Code by reason of Section 355(e) of the Code.
(b) Cargill may seek indemnification for any Tax Loss or potential Tax Loss suffered by Cargill and/or any of its Subsidiaries by giving notice to M Holdings, specifying (i) the representation, warranty, covenant or Prohibited Act that is alleged to have been inaccurate, to have been breached or to have given rise to indemnification, (ii) the basis for such allegation and a description of the Tax Loss and (iii) if known, the aggregate amount of the Tax Losses for which a claim is being made under this Section 2.07 including a detailed computation of such Tax Loss or, to the extent that the aggregate amount of such Tax Losses are not known at the time such claim is made, a detailed computation setting forth an estimate, prepared in good faith, of the aggregate potential amount of such Tax Losses (it being understood and agreed that no inaccuracy in any such notice or estimate shall affect Cargill's right to indemnification for Tax Losses hereunder). Notice to M Holdings of the existence of a claim shall be given by Cargill as soon as practicable after Cargill receives written notice of the claim; that any failure to provide such prompt notice of the existence of a claim to M Holdings shall not affect Cargill's right to seek indemnification pursuant to this Section 2.07 except and only to the extent that such failure results in a lack of actual notice to M Holdings and M Holdings has been materially prejudiced as a result of such delay. No payment shall be required to be made pursuant to a claim for indemnification until the Final Determination of the amount of Tax Loss has been made by the applicable taxing authority.
provided
 
(c) Subject to Section 3.11, the indemnification obligations and the remedies provided in this Section 2.07 shall be Cargill's sole remedy against Mosaic and/or M Holdings for Tax Losses.
(d) M Holdings shall not enter into any agreement pursuant to which any Person (other than Mosaic or any of its Subsidiaries) acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Mosaic or M Holdings or a majority of the outstanding shares of Mosaic stock or M Holdings Stock, whether by merger, tender offer, exchange offer, amalgamation or consolidation, asset purchase, stock purchase or subscription or otherwise, unless such Person expressly assumes the obligations of Mosaic and M Holdings under this Agreement in writing for the benefit of Cargill.
. Each party hereto agrees to report the Transactions consistent with the Private Letter Ruling on all Tax Returns and other filings; provided that, with respect to any supplemental rulings issued by the IRS, only if Cargill has complied with its obligations under Section 2.11 of this Agreement. Each party hereto agrees to make all filings required in connection with the Transaction with the IRS or any other taxing authority.
SECTION 2.08
Inconsistent Actions
. Except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement, all covenants, representations, warranties and agreements of the parties contained in this Agreement, or in any certificate delivered in connection with this Agreement, shall survive the consummation of the Merger and the Split-off.
SECTION 2.09
Survival
.
SECTION 2.10
Tax Audits
(a) With respect to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any audit, examination, claim, adjustment or other proceeding (a "Tax Controversy") relating to the Transactions that arises in an income tax return of M Holdings and that raises an issue which could have an adverse effect on Cargill and/or its shareholders, M Holdings shall have the right, through tax counsel of its choosing and at its own expense, to conduct and control the settlement or defense of such Tax Controversy; provided, however, that Cargill shall be entitled to jointly participate in such Tax Controversy, at its own expense, and M Holdings shall not, without Cargill's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, agree to pay or settle any such Tax Controversy. If M Holdings would be entitled to, and proposes to, settle a Tax Controversy but Cargill reasonably withholds consent for such settlement, Cargill shall have the right to conduct and control the settlement or defense from that point forward. To the extent the amount of the final settlement or assessment or other final determination of the Tax Controversy exceeds the amount at which M Holdings had proposed to settle such Tax Controversy, Cargill shall bear the full cost of such excess, regardless of whether M Holdings is determined to be responsible for the underlying Tax Loss pursuant to Section 2.07.
 
(b) With respect to a Tax Controversy relating to the Transactions that arises in an income tax return of Cargill, Cargill shall have the right, through tax counsel of its choosing and at its own expense, to conduct and control the settlement or defense of such Tax Controversy; provided, however, that M Holdings shall be entitled to jointly participate in such Tax Controversy, at its own expense, and Cargill shall not, without M Holdings' consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, agree to pay or settle any such Tax Controversy. If Cargill would be entitled to, and proposes to, settle a Tax Controversy but M Holdings reasonably withholds consent for such settlement, M Holdings shall have the right to conduct and control the settlement or defense from that point forward. To the extent the amount of the final settlement or assessment or other final determination of the Tax Controversy exceeds the amount at which Cargill had proposed to settle such Tax Controversy, M Holdings shall bear the full cost of such excess, regardless of whether M Holdings is determined to be responsible for the underlying Tax Loss pursuant to Section 2.07.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section 2.10, in the event that Cargill acknowledges in writing that Mosaic and M Holdings have no indemnification obligations pursuant to Section 2.07 for any Tax Losses relating to, or arising out of a Tax Controversy, Cargill shall have the exclusive right to conduct and control the settlement or defense of such Tax Controversy at its own expense.
(d) In the event Mosaic or M Holdings receives written notice of a Tax Controversy relating to the Transactions, M Holdings shall notify Cargill in writing within ten (10) Business Days after the receipt by Mosaic or M Holdings of such notice; provided that any failure to provide such prompt notice of a Tax Controversy shall not result in any liability of Mosaic or M Holdings hereunder, except to the extent that Cargill is materially prejudiced thereby.
(e) In the event Cargill receives written notice of a Tax Controversy relating to the Transactions and with respect to a Tax for which Cargill believes Mosaic or M Holdings is or may be responsible pursuant to Section 2.07, Cargill shall notify M Holdings in writing within ten (10) Business Days after the receipt by Cargill of such notice; provided that any failure to provide such prompt notice of the existence of a Tax Controversy to M Holdings shall not affect Cargill's right to seek indemnification pursuant to Section 2.07 except and only to the extent that M Holdings has been materially prejudiced as a result of such delay.
(f) Mosaic, M Holdings and their respective Subsidiaries, on one hand, and Cargill and its Subsidiaries, on the other, will provide each other with such cooperation and information as they may reasonably request of each other in connection with a Tax Controversy or other Tax matters related to the Transactions.
. Cargill shall have the right to make one or more Supplemental Ruling Requests, that M Holdings and its counsel shall be given a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any such Supplemental Ruling Request sufficiently in advance of such document being filed with the IRS, and Cargill shall give reasonable and good faith consideration to any comments made by M Holdings and its counsel. To the extent reasonably requested by Cargill, M Holdings shall use reasonable best efforts to assist Cargill in making a Supplemental Ruling Request. Cargill shall promptly provide M Holdings and its counsel with a copy of any ruling issued by the IRS in response to a Supplemental Ruling Request.
SECTION 2.11
Supplemental Ruling Requests
provided
 
. This Agreement, including the Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules hereto, and the other Transaction Documents shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
SECTION 3.01
Entire Agreement
. This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties in separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts transmitted by telecopy, telefax or electronic transmission shall be considered original executed counterparts for purposes of this Section 3.02; that receipt of copies of such counterparts is confirmed.
SECTION 3.02
Counterparts
provided
. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given or made (i) as of the date delivered, if delivered personally, (ii) on the date the delivering party receives confirmation, if delivered by facsimile or electronic mail (iii) three (3) Business Days after being mailed by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested); or (iv) one Business Day after being sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery), to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 3.03):
SECTION 3.03
Notices
 
Cargill, Incorporated
PO Box 9300
Minneapolis, MN
55440-9300
Attention: Scott Naatjes
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20004
Attention:   Alan S. Kaden, Esq.
Philip Richter, Esq.
 
 
M Holdings
c/o The Mosaic Company
Atria Corporate Center, Suite E490
3033 Campus Drive
Plymouth, MN 55441
Attention:   Richard L. Mack
Todd Madden
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017-3954
Attention:   Casey Cogut
Eric Swedenburg
. No failure or delay by Cargill or any Mosaic Party in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of rights, nor shall any single or partial exercise of such rights preclude any other or further exercise of such rights or the exercise of any other right hereunder. Any agreement on the part of a party hereto to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party.
SECTION 3.04
Waivers
. This Agreement may be amended or supplemented in any and all respects, whether before or after receipt of the Mosaic Shareholder Approval, by written agreement of the parties. No amendment to or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding upon any party unless in writing and signed by all parties.
SECTION 3.05
Amendments
. Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Any purported assignment not permitted under this Section 3.06 shall be null and void.
SECTION 3.06
Assignment
. The terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
SECTION 3.07
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties and their successors and permitted assigns, and nothing herein express or implied shall give or shall be construed to confer any legal or equitable rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and such successors and permitted assigns.
SECTION 3.08
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF DELAWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
SECTION 3.09
GOVERNING LAW
.
SECTION 3.10
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a) All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, in the event that such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over such action or proceeding, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware, and the parties to this Agreement irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and, in the case of appeals, appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. The consents to jurisdiction set forth in this paragraph shall not constitute general consents to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this paragraph and shall not be deemed to confer rights on any Person other than the parties hereto. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each of the parties to this Agreement consents to service being made through the notice procedures set forth in Section 3.03 and agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail (return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid) to the respective addresses of the parties set forth in Section 3.03 shall be effective service of process for any suit or proceeding in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
(b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
The Mosaic Parties agree that Cargill would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of any of the Mosaic Parties under this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, the Mosaic Parties agree that Cargill shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and injunctive and other equitable relief, as appropriate. No Mosaic Party shall object to the granting of specific performance of the terms and provisions of this Agreement or other equitable relief on the basis that there exists an adequate remedy at law. The Mosaic Parties further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such injunctive or other equitable relief, this being in addition to any
SECTION 3.11
Specific Performance.
 
other remedy to which Cargill is entitled at Law or in equity. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a court shall require that Cargill prove that it is entitled to specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief for a breach or non-performance of this Agreement by any Mosaic Party, Cargill's entitlement to such specific performance, injunctive or other equitable relief shall be governed by the preponderance of the evidence standard (and not the clear and convincing evidence or any other higher standard) for the burden of persuasion with respect to Cargill's entitlement to such relief.
. In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
SECTION 3.12
Severability
. The limitations and restrictions imposed upon M Holdings, Mosaic or any of their Subsidiaries in this Agreement shall apply notwithstanding the terms of any less restrictive provisions set forth in any other Transaction Document or in the M Holdings Charter. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to permit M Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries to take any action otherwise limited or barred under the other Transaction Documents or the M Holdings Charter. All references in this Agreement to the number of shares of any securities or calculations determined by reference to a number of securities shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or similar change in such securities which may be made by the issuer thereof after date of this Agreement.
SECTION 3.13
Interpretation
If the Merger and Distribution Agreement is terminated at any time prior to the Merger Effective Time, this Agreement shall terminate automatically.
SECTION 3.14
Termination.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.4
EXECUTION VERSION
 
E
XHIBITS
 
GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT, dated as of January 18, 2011 (this ""), among GNS II (U.S.) CORP., a Delaware corporation which following consummation of the Merger will be renamed "The Mosaic Company" (the ""), THE MOSAIC COMPANY, a Delaware corporation which following consummation of the Merger will be renamed "The Mosaic Holding Company" and will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (""), and EACH OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO (each, a "" and, collectively, the "").
Agreement
Company
Old Mosaic
Stockholder
Stockholders
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Merger and Distribution Agreement, on the Closing Date, Old Mosaic, the Company and Cargill intend to effect the Merger and Split-off, pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the outstanding shares of Old Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger will be converted into shares of Common Stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, (ii) the outstanding shares of Old Mosaic Common Stock held by all other stockholders of Old Mosaic immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger will be converted into shares of Common Stock and (iii) Cargill will exchange certain shares of Common Stock and all of the shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock with certain stockholders of Cargill for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders of Cargill;
WHEREAS, it is a condition to the obligations of the Company and Old Mosaic to consummate the Merger that all Significant Stockholders enter into this Agreement in order to establish certain rights and obligations of the Stockholders as holders of Company Common Stock.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements set forth herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows.
SECTION 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
"" means the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Acorn Trust
"" means, when used with respect to a specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such specified Person; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, none of the Company, Old Mosaic or any of their subsidiaries shall be considered to be an Affiliate of any Stockholder. As used in this definition, "" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided
however
control
"" means the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Anne Ray Charitable Trust
"" and words of similar import (including "" and "") have the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement. For purposes of determining the percentage of the Total Voting Power owned at any time by any of the MAC Trusts, such MAC Trust shall be deemed to beneficially own all Voting Securities beneficially owned by all other MAC Trusts.
Beneficial Owner
beneficially own
beneficial ownership
"" means (i) prior to the Closing, the Board of Directors of Old Mosaic and (ii) after the Closing, the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" means Cargill, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation.
Cargill
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Certificate of Incorporation
"" means the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, including such common stock that is designated as "Class A Common Stock, Series A-1", "Class A Common Stock, Series A-2", "Class A Common Stock, Series A-3" and "Class A Common Stock, Series A-4".
Class A Common Stock
"" means the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, including such common stock that is designated as "Class B Common Stock, Series B-1", "Class B Common Stock, Series B-2" and "Class B Common Stock, Series B-3".
Class B Common Stock
"" has the meaning given such term in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Class B Conversion Approval
"" has the meaning given such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing
"" has the meaning given such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing Date
"" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
"" means, collectively, the Common Stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock.
Company Common Stock
"" means, with respect to any Stockholder, the transferees of such Stockholder defined in clauses (D), (F), (G), (I), (L) (other than with respect to Transfers to Charitable Organizations) and (M) of the definition of "Permitted Transfer" in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Counted Permitted Transferee
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06.
Determination Notice
 
"" means any member of the Board.
Director
"" has the meaning given such term in the Registration Agreement.
Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning given such term in the Registration Agreement.
Formation Offerings
"" means any nation or government, any foreign or domestic federal, state, county, municipal or other political instrumentality or subdivision thereof and any foreign or domestic entity or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative, supervisory or taxing functions of or pertaining to government, including any court.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning given such term in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Group
"" has them meaning set forth in Section 2.06.
Intended Transferee
"" has them meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Joinder Agreement
"" means all laws, Orders, statutes, codes, regulations, ordinances, decrees, rules, or other requirements with similar effect of any Governmental Authority.
Law
"" means the Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Lilac Trust
"" has the meaning given such term in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Lock-up Expiration Date
"" means collectively, the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation, the Acorn Trust, the Lilac Trust and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust.
MAC Trusts
"" means the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended.
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
"" means, with respect to each meeting of the stockholders of the Company, 9 a.m., New York City time, on the date that such meeting is scheduled, or if such meeting is postponed, the date of such rescheduled meeting.
Measurement Time
"" has the meaning given such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Merger
"" means that certain Merger and Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011 (as the same may be subsequently amended or modified), by and among the Company, Old Mosaic, Cargill and GNS Merger Sub LLC.
Merger and Distribution Agreement
"" means the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
 
"" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Old Mosaic.
Old Mosaic Common Stock
"" means all judgments, orders, writs, injunctions, decisions, rulings, decrees and awards of any Governmental Authority.
Order
"" means either of the following types of transactions:
Permitted Private Transaction
(a) a Transfer after the expiration of the Tax Lock-up Period and before the applicable Lock-up Expiration Date of an amount of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock or a combination thereof that (i) represents in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power and (ii) is made to a Person that (x) is not a Prohibited Person and (y) agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement in accordance with Section 2.03; and
(b) a Transfer after the expiration of the Tax Lock-up Period and on or after the applicable Lock-up Expiration Date of Common Stock or Class B Common Stock to a Person that is not a Prohibited Person and either (i) will not, after giving effect to the proposed Transfer, beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power or (ii) will, after giving effect to the proposed Transfer, beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power and agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement in accordance with Section 2.03.
Each Person pursuant to which Voting Securities are Transferred pursuant to either clause (a) or (b)(ii) of this definition shall hereinafter be referred to as a "".
Significant Transferee
"" means any Transfer that constitutes a "Permitted Transfer", as such term is defined in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Permitted Transfer
"" means a transferee of any Voting Securities pursuant to a Permitted Transfer. A Stockholder shall be a Permitted Transferee of its Permitted Transferees.
Permitted Transferee
"" means any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, business trust, joint venture, association, company, Group, other entity or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means (i) any Person (x) whose primary business is in the agribusiness sector, including any Person that is in the business of manufacturing and/or selling crop nutrients or (y) whose primary business is in the business of mining; (ii) any Person who, directly or indirectly, has been a significant customer of the Company or its subsidiaries during both of the two fiscal years prior to the date of this Agreement and is listed on attached hereto; or (iii) any Affiliate of any Person specified in the foregoing clause (i) or (ii).
Prohibited Person
Schedule I
"" means those outstanding shares of Common Stock held by Persons other than the Stockholders.
Public Voting Securities
"" has the meaning given such term in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Qualified Transfer
 
"" means that certain Registration Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2010 (as the same may be subsequently amended or modified), by and among the Company, Old Mosaic, Cargill and the MAC Trusts.
Registration Agreement
"" has the meaning given such term in the Registration Agreement.
Released Share Offering
"" has the meaning given such term in the Registration Agreement.
S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
SEC
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning given such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Significant Stockholder
"" has the meaning given such term in the definition of "Permitted Private Transaction".
Significant Transferee
"" has the meaning given such term in the Registration Agreement.
Split-off
"" has the meaning given such term in Section 2.02.
Tax Lock-up Period
"" means the total number of votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of the Company's capital stock in the election of Directors.
Total Voting Power
"" means (with its cognates having corresponding meanings), with respect to any Voting Securities, (i) any direct or indirect sale, exchange, issuance, transfer, redemption, grant, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation or law or otherwise, and whether or not for value, of any of the Voting Securities, or any securities, options, warrants or rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or for the purchase or other acquisition of, or otherwise with respect to, any Voting Securities or any contract or other binding arrangement or understanding (in each case, whether written or oral) to take any of the foregoing actions or (ii) entering into any swap or other agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, that, directly or indirectly, transfers, conveys or otherwise disposes of, in whole or in part, any of the economic or other risks or consequences of ownership of any Voting Securities, including short sales of applicable securities, option transactions with respect to Voting Securities, use of equity or other derivative financial instruments relating to Voting Securities and other hedging arrangements with respect to applicable securities, whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of the Voting Securities, other securities, cash or otherwise; , , that the conversion of any shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Common Stock or Class A Common Stock and the conversion of any shares of Class A Common Stock into shares of Common Stock in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation shall not constitute a "Transfer".
Transfer
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06.
Transferring Stockholder
"" means the sale of Common Stock for cash in an underwritten public offering or in a block trade pursuant to a registration statement filed and maintained by the Company and which, in any case, is designed to effect a broad distribution of such Common Stock.
Underwritten Public Offering
"" means any securities of the Company the holders of which are generally entitled to vote in the election of Directors, including the Company Common Stock.
Voting Securities
SECTION 1.02 .
Other Definitional Provisions; Interpretation
(a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, a Section, or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article or a Section of, or an Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "," "" or "" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The words "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such terms. Any statute defined or referred to in this Agreement or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to in this Agreement shall mean such statute as from time to time amended, updated, modified, supplemented or superseded, including by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns. Any term incorporated by reference from another agreement shall, for purposes hereof, retain its meaning as set forth in such other agreement as in effect on the Closing Date, notwithstanding any subsequent amendment thereof.
include
includes
including
hereof
herein
hereunder
(b) The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as jointly drafted by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 2.01 . In addition to any restrictions set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (as the same may be subsequently amended or modified, the ""), the right of each Stockholder to Transfer any Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder is subject to the restrictions set forth in this Article II, and no Transfer of such Voting Securities by such Stockholder may be effected except in compliance with this Article II. Any attempted Transfer in violation of this Agreement shall be null and void and of no effect, regardless of whether the purported transferee has any actual or constructive knowledge of the Transfer restrictions set forth in this Agreement, and shall not be recorded on the stock transfer books of the Company or result in the treatment of any purported transferee of such Voting Securities as the owner of such Voting Securities for any purpose.
General Transfer Restrictions
Certificate of Incorporation
SECTION 2.02 .
Restrictions on Transfer
(a) . During the period from (and including) the date of the Closing through (and including) the two-year anniversary date of the Closing (such period, the ""), each Stockholder agrees, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company not to, Transfer any Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder, except:
Restrictions During Tax Lock-Up Period
Tax Lock-Up Period
(i) with the prior written consent of the Company (acting through its Board or a designated committee thereof);
(ii) in a Permitted Transfer;
(iii) if such Stockholder is a MAC Trust, pursuant to any Formation Offering, S&P 500 Index Inclusion Offering or pursuant to Section 2.2(a) of the Registration Agreement, in each case, to the extent permitted by, and effected in accordance with, the Registration Agreement;
(iv) if such Stockholder is a MAC Trust, pursuant to Section 2.2(c) of the Registration Agreement so long as any such Transfer (A) is permitted by, and effected in accordance with, the Registration Agreement and (B) is to a Person that is not a Prohibited Person which either (x) will not, after giving effect to the proposed Transfer, beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power or (y) will, after giving effect to the proposed Transfer, beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power and agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement in accordance with Section 2.03 as a Significant Transferee; or
(v) pursuant to a Qualified Transfer;
, that as to any particular Stockholder the foregoing exceptions shall be subject to any limitations on Transferability of Company Common Stock in any agreement between such Stockholder and Cargill.
provided
(b) . Following the Tax Lock-Up Period each Stockholder agrees, severally, and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company not to, Transfer any Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder, except:
Restrictions Following Tax Lock-Up Period
(i) with the prior written consent of the Company (acting through its Board or a designated committee thereof);
 
(ii) in a Permitted Transfer;
(iii) pursuant to a Qualified Transfer;
(iv) pursuant to any Released Share Offering or other Underwritten Public Offering of Common Stock or pursuant to an Excess Released Shelf Registration Statement;
(v) in open market transactions of Common Stock on NYSE (or other market in which the Common Stock principally trades); or
(vi) in a Permitted Private Transaction;
, that as to any particular Stockholder the foregoing exceptions shall be subject to any limitations on Transferability of Company Common Stock in any agreement between such Stockholder and Cargill.
provided
(c) . Notwithstanding anything in this Article II to the contrary, each Stockholder agrees, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company that in no event shall such Stockholder Transfer any share of Class B Common Stock to any transferee if, after giving effect to the proposed Transfer, the proposed transferee would beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power unless (i) such transferee represents that it is acquiring such shares for investment purposes only and with no intention of influencing control over the management, policies or operations of the Company, and (ii) prior to such Transfer, the Company shall have received a certificate (in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company) from such transferee to such effect.
Additional Restrictions Relating to Class B Common Stock
(d) . In the event a Stockholder wishes to Transfer any Voting Securities pursuant to Section 2.02(b)(vi), the Company shall (subject to the limitations set forth in Section 2.02(c)) permit such Transfer under Section 3(A)(4)(b) of Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Waiver of Certain Transfer Restrictions
(e) . Notwithstanding anything in this Article II to the contrary, a Transfer of Voting Securities by an investment fund in which a Stockholder has investments, or a Transfer by a Stockholder of an interest in an investment fund that holds Voting Securities, shall not be deemed to be a Transfer of Voting Securities by such Stockholder for purposes of this Article II so long as such Stockholder has no authority to control the securities held by such investment fund at the time of the Transfer or at the time such investment fund acquired such Voting Securities and such investment fund did not acquire such Voting Securities from any Stockholder.
Investment Fund Transfers
 
SECTION 2.03 . Prior to the acquisition of beneficial ownership of any Voting Securities by any (a) Significant Transferee or (b) Permitted Transferee who (x) will, after giving effect to such acquisition, beneficially own Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate 5% or more of the Total Voting Power or (y) is a Counted Permitted Transferee, and as a condition thereto, the Stockholder transferring such Voting Securities agrees to cause such Significant Transferee or Permitted Transferee (as applicable) to execute and deliver a Joinder Agreement in the form attached hereto as (the "") and, if the transferee is a Significant Transferee, such Significant Transferee also shall have delivered the certificate required pursuant to Section 2.02(c), if applicable.
Significant Transferees; Permitted Transferees
Exhibit A
Joinder Agreement
SECTION 2.04 . Any Stockholder Transferring any Voting Securities (other than a Transfer in any public offering permitted by the Registration Agreement) shall, within five (5) Business Days following consummation of such Transfer, deliver notice thereof to the Company.
Notice of Transfer
SECTION 2.05 . In addition to any legend required by the Merger and Distribution Agreement, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the certificates evidencing ownership of Company Common Stock held by Stockholders shall also contain the following (or substantially similar) legend:
Legends
"THE SECURITIES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS AS SET FORTH IN A GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT DATED AS OF JANUARY 18, 2011 BY AND AMONG THE CORPORATION AND THE OTHER PARTIES NAMED THEREIN, AS IT MAY BE AMENDED FROM TIME TO TIME, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES OF THE CORPORATION AND WHICH SHALL BE FURNISHED TO ANY STOCKHOLDER OF THE CORPORATION, ON REQUEST AND WITHOUT COST. NO REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF SUCH SECURITIES WILL BE MADE ON THE BOOKS OF THE CORPORATION UNLESS AND UNTIL SUCH RESTRICTIONS SHALL HAVE BEEN COMPLIED WITH. ANY TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH AGREEMENT SHALL BE NULL AND VOID AND OF NO EFFECT."
At such time at which the provisions of this Article II no longer apply to a Stockholder by reason of Section 2.08, upon written request of such Stockholder, the Company shall promptly exchange certificate or certificates representing Voting Securities held by such Stockholder for new certificates or certificates or book-entry confirmation (if such Voting Security is a share of Common Stock) representing such Voting Security which shall not contain such legend.
SECTION 2.06 . No later than ten (10) calendar days prior to the date on which a Stockholder (the "") intends to Transfer Voting Securities pursuant to Section 2.02(b)(vi), or enter into any binding agreement providing for such Transfer, such Stockholder shall notify the Company in writing of the identity of the intended transferee (the "") and shall provide the Company any additional information regarding the Intended Transferee as may reasonably be requested by the Company following
Prohibited Persons
Transferring Stockholder
Intended Transferee
 
receipt by the Company of such notice. No later than five (5) Business Days following the receipt by the Company of such notice, the Company shall notify the Transferring Stockholder in writing (a "") if the Intended Transferee is a Prohibited Person. If the Company determines that the Person is a Prohibited Person, the Determination Notice shall specify in reasonable detail the Company's basis for such determination. If the Transferring Stockholder does not receive a Determination Notice within the time period prescribed above, the Intended Transferee shall be deemed not to be a Prohibited Person with respect to such transaction.
Determination Notice
SECTION 2.07 . The Company shall not incur any liability for any delay in recognizing any Transfer of Voting Securities if the Company in good faith reasonably believes that such Transfer may have been or would be in violation in any material respect of the provisions of the Securities Act, applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws, or this Agreement.
Delay of Transfer
SECTION 2.08 . The provisions of this Article II shall cease to apply to a Stockholder at the time such Stockholder, together with its Counted Permitted Transferees, beneficially owns Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate less than 5% of the Total Voting Power.
Article II Termination
SECTION 3.01 .
Standstill Restrictions
(a) . Each Stockholder covenants and agrees, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company that until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the date of the Closing and the first date upon which such Stockholder, together with its Counted Permitted Transferees, beneficially owns Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate less than 5% of the Total Voting Power, such Stockholder shall not, and shall not cause any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, acquire or seek to acquire, offer or propose to acquire or agree to acquire, the beneficial ownership of any Voting Securities, other than (x) the Voting Securities acquired by each such Stockholder in the Split-off or otherwise from the Company or (y) pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or other similar event by the Company; that (i) an acquisition of Voting Securities by an investment fund in which a Stockholder has investments or the acquisition by a Stockholder of an interest in an investment fund that holds Voting Securities shall not constitute a breach of this Section 3.01(a) so long as such Stockholder has no authority to control the securities held by such investment fund at the time of the acquisition or at the time such investment fund acquired such Voting Securities and such investment fund did not acquire such Voting Securities from such Stockholder and (ii) neither (A) any Transfer of shares of Company Common Stock by a Stockholder in a Permitted Transfer nor (B) the conversion of shares of one or more series of Class B Common Stock into shares of one or more series of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock or the conversion of shares of one or more series of Class A Common Stock into shares of one or more series of Class A Common Stock or Common Stock, in each case in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation, shall constitute a breach of this Section 3.01(a); , that, in the case of clause (ii)(A), such Stockholder complies with Section 2.03 to the extent applicable.
No Acquisitions
provided
provided
further
 
(b) . Each Stockholder covenants and agrees, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company that, until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date and the first date upon which such Stockholder, together with its Counted Permitted Transferees, beneficially owns Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate less than 5% of the Total Voting Power, such Stockholder shall not, and shall not cause any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, alone or in concert with others, take any of the actions set forth below (or take any action that would require the Company to make an announcement regarding any of the following):
Other Restrictions
(i) except as expressly permitted by Sections 2.02(a) or 2.02(b), effect, seek, offer, engage in, propose (whether publicly or otherwise) or cause or participate in, or assist any other Person to effect, seek, engage in, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) or participate in any tender or exchange offer, merger, business combination, recapitalization, restructuring, liquidation, dissolution, share exchange or other extraordinary transaction involving the Company or any material portion of its business or any purchase of all or any substantial part of the assets of the Company or any material portion of its business;
(ii) take or propose to take any action to seek to affect the control of the management of the Company or any of the businesses, operations or policies of the Company, including through (A) any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the SEC but without regard to the exclusion set forth in Section 14a-1(l)(2)(iv) from the definition of "solicitation") to vote any securities of the Company or consents to any action from any holder of any Voting Securities, (B) publicly announcing its desire to affect the control of the management or policies of the Company or (C) any filings with any government or judicial authority;
(iii) call or seek to call a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company or nominate any person as a Director or propose any matter to be voted upon by the stockholders of the Company;
(iv) deposit any securities of the Company into a voting trust or subject any securities of the Company to any agreement or arrangement with respect to the voting of such securities with any third party , other than any agreement or arrangement set forth in the organizational documents of such Stockholder;
(v) seek to amend or waive any provision of Section 3.01 (other than a proposal made privately to the Board in a manner that is not intended to result in the Company being required to make any public disclosure or other public announcement related to such proposal);
(vi) take any action, make any statement, or disclose any intention, that to such Stockholder's knowledge is inconsistent with any of the foregoing; or
 
(vii) enter into any discussions, negotiations, arrangements or understandings with any Person inconsistent with any of the foregoing, or advise, assist or encourage any Person in connection with the foregoing.
SECTION 3.02 .
Voting
(a) . Each Stockholder covenants and agrees, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, with the Company that, until the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of Closing and the first date upon which such Stockholder, together with its Counted Permitted Transferees, beneficially owns Voting Securities that represent in the aggregate less than 10% of the Total Voting Power, such Stockholder shall:
Voting on Certain Matters
(i) cause the Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder to be present, in person or represented by proxy, at all meetings of the stockholders of the Company (whether annual or special and whether or not an adjourned or postponed meeting) so that the Voting Securities of such Stockholder may be counted for determining a quorum at each such meeting; and
(ii) other than for the election of Directors and for any vote with respect to the Class B Conversion Approval, vote, or cause to be voted, the Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder, or execute one or more written consents in respect of the Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Stockholder at all meetings (whether annual or special and whether or not an adjourned or postponed meeting) of the stockholders of the Company in accordance with the Board's recommendation with respect to each matter, so long as holders of a majority of the Public Voting Securities who have submitted proxies to the Company in respect of such meeting by the Measurement Time have authorized the proxy holder to vote their Voting Securities at such meeting in accordance with the Board's recommendation on such matter (it being understood that if holders of a majority of the Public Voting Securities who have submitted proxies to the Company in respect of such meeting by the Measurement Time have authorized the proxy holder to vote the Voting Securities represented by such proxies other than in accordance with the Board's recommendation on such matter, then each Stockholder may vote at such meeting (or execute one or more written consents in respect of) its Voting Securities on such matter in its sole discretion).
(b) . With respect to any meeting of stockholders of the Company that is scheduled to take place at a time during which the provisions of Section 3.02(a) are applicable to a Stockholder, at least ten (10) Business Days prior to such meeting, such Stockholder shall deliver a duly executed irrevocable proxy to the Company specifying for any matter brought before the meeting other than with respect to the election of directors and any stockholder vote with respect to the Class B Conversion Approval (A) that such Stockholder shall vote its Voting Securities at the meeting in accordance with the Board's recommendation on such matter if holders of a majority of the Public Voting Securities who have submitted proxies to the Company in respect of such meeting by the Measurement Time have authorized the proxy holder to vote the Voting Securities represented by such proxies in accordance with the Board's recommendation on such matter and (B) how such Stockholder shall vote its Voting Securities at the meeting with respect to such matter if the holders of a majority of the Public
Irrevocable Proxy
 
Voting Securities who have submitted proxies to the Company in respect of such meeting by the Measurement Time have agreed to vote their Voting Securities in such proxies other than in accordance with the Board's recommendation on such matter. Such proxy shall appoint such officers of the Company as the Board shall designate as such Stockholder's true and lawful proxies as to the matters to be voted at the meeting and shall state that it is irrevocable and coupled with an interest sufficient in the law to support an irrevocable proxy. The Company shall cause any such proxy to be voted in accordance with the instructions given in conformity herewith.
SECTION 4.01 . The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Stockholders that:
Company Representations
(a) . The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company. No other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered on behalf of the Company and, assuming it has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws relating to or affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization and Enforceability
(c) . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company, will not (a) conflict with or result in any breach of any provision of its certificate of incorporation or by-laws as in effect on the date hereof, (b) conflict with or result in the breach of, in any material respect, the terms, conditions or provisions of or constitute a default (or an event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become a default) under, or give rise to any right of termination, acceleration or cancellation under, any material agreement, lease, mortgage, license, indenture, instrument or other contract to which it or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of its or any of its subsidiaries' properties or assets are bound as in effect on the date hereof, or (c) result in a violation in any material respect of any law, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree (including federal and state securities laws and regulations) applicable to it or any of its Subsidiaries or by which any of its or its Subsidiaries' properties or assets are bound or affected as in effect on the date hereof.
No Conflict
 
SECTION 4.02 . Each Stockholder, severally and not jointly with any other Stockholder, hereby represents and warrants to the Company that as of the date hereof:
Representations and Warranties of the Stockholders
(a) . Such Stockholder, if such Stockholder is not a natural person, is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.
Organization
(b) . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Stockholder have been duly and validly authorized by such Stockholder, and no other proceedings of such Stockholder are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by such Stockholder of this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered on behalf of such Stockholder and, assuming it has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Stockholder, enforceable against it, him or her in accordance with its terms except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws relating to or affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization and Enforceability
(c) . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Stockholder, will not (a) to the extent applicable, conflict with or result in any breach of any provision of the Stockholder's organizational documents in effect on the date hereof, (b) conflict with or result in the breach of, in any material respect, the terms, conditions or provisions of or constitute a default (or an event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become a default) under, or give rise to any right of termination, acceleration or cancellation under, any material agreement, lease, mortgage, license, indenture, instrument or other contract to which it, he or she is a party or by which any of its, his or her properties or assets are bound as in effect on the date hereof, or (c) result in a violation in any material respect of any law, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree (including federal and state securities laws and regulations) applicable to it, him or her or by which any of its, his or her properties or assets are bound or affected as in effect on the date hereof.
No Conflict
(d) . As of the date hereof, such Stockholder does not beneficially own any Voting Securities.
Ownership
SECTION 5.01 . Unless otherwise expressly set forth herein, all notices and other communications given or made pursuant hereto shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (i) as of the date delivered, if delivered personally; (ii) on the date the delivering party receives confirmation, if delivered by facsimile or electronic mail; (iii) three (3) Business Days after being mailed by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested); or (iv) one Business Day after being sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery), to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 5.01):
Notices
(a) If to Old Mosaic or the Company, to:
The Mosaic Company
Atria Corporate Center, Suite E490
3033 Campus Drive
Plymouth, MN 55441
Attention:         Richard L. Mack
 
with a copy (which copy alone shall not constitute notice) to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017-3954
Attention: Casey Cogut
                    Eric Swedenburg
(b) If to the MAC Trusts, to:
Christine M Morse and Paul G. Bush
as CoTrustees of the Acorn Trust,
-
Anne Ray Charitable Trust, Lilac Trust and
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
6889 Rowland Road
Eden Prairie MN 55344
:
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to
Loeb & Loeb LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10 154-1895
Attention:    David S. Schaefer, Esq.
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to
Loeb & Loeb LLP
10100 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 2200
Los Angeles CA 90067
Attention:    Leah M. Bishop, Esq.
                    Stuart P. Tobisman, Esq.
 
(c) if to any other Stockholder, to the address of such Stockholder specified on such Stockholder's signature page hereto or the Joinder Agreement (as applicable).
SECTION 5.02 . Except as expressly provided in Section 2.02, neither this Agreement, nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto, in whole or in part (whether by operation of law or otherwise), without the prior written consent of the other parties, and any attempt to make any such assignment without such consent shall be null and void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
SECTION 5.03 . This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns and nothing herein express or implied shall give or shall be construed to confer any legal or equitable rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Third Party Beneficiaries
SECTION 5.04 . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes any prior agreement or understanding among them with respect to the matters referred to herein. This Agreement and the provisions hereof may be amended, waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), modified or supplemented, in whole or in part, at any time by action of the Company; , , that any such amendment, waiver, modification or supplement that would directly and adversely affect the rights, or directly increase the obligations, of any Stockholder, shall require the prior written consent of such adversely affected Stockholder. The execution of a Joinder Agreement to this Agreement after the date hereof shall require only the consent of the Company and shall not be deemed an amendment to this Agreement so long as such Person agrees to be treated as a "Stockholder" hereunder.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
provided
however
SECTION 5.05 . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law.
Governing Law
SECTION 5.06 .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a) All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, in the event that such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over such action or proceeding, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware, and the parties to this Agreement irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and, in the case of appeals, appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. The consents to jurisdiction set forth in this paragraph shall not constitute general consents to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this paragraph and shall not be deemed to confer rights on any Person other than the parties hereto. To the fullest extent permitted by Law, each of the parties to this Agreement consents to service
 
being made through the notice procedures set forth in Section 5.01 and agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail (return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid) to the respective addresses of the parties set forth in Section 5.01 shall be effective service of process for any suit or proceeding in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable law.
(b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
SECTION 5.07 .
Specific Performance
(a) The parties hereto agree that the Company would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of any Stockholder under this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, each Stockholder agrees that the Company shall be entitled (in addition to any other remedy to which the Company may be entitled at law or in equity) to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by any Stockholder of its obligations under this Agreement, without the posting of any bond, and if any action should be brought in equity to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, no Stockholder shall raise the defense that there is an adequate remedy at law.
(b) The parties hereto agree that each Stockholder would suffer irreparable damage if any covenant or obligation of the Company under this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof. Accordingly, the Company agrees that each Stockholder shall be entitled (in addition to any other remedy to which such Stockholder may be entitled at law or in equity) to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief to prevent a breach or non-performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, without the posting of any bond, and if any action should be brought in equity to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall not raise the defense that there is an adequate remedy at law.
SECTION 5.08 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 5.09 . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such provision shall be construed by limiting it so as to be valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent provided by law and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
SECTION 5.10 . This Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect upon the termination of the Merger and Distribution Agreement in accordance with its terms. In addition, if following the Split-off, any Person who has executed
Termination
 
this Agreement has not received a number of shares of Company Common Stock necessary for such Person to be deemed a Significant Stockholder, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect with respect to such Person.
SECTION 5.11 . In addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled, the prevailing party in any action or proceeding to enforce this Agreement shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be entitled to recover from the non-prevailing party all court costs, counsel fees, and other costs or expenses incurred by the prevailing party in connection with such action, including in enforcing this section and proving the amounts to which the prevailing party is entitled pursuant to this section.
Legal Expenses
 
, each of the following parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
[EXECUTED BY VARIOUS STOCKHOLDERS]
EXHIBIT A
The undersigned is executing and delivering this Joinder Agreement pursuant to the Governance Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011, among The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation, GNS II (U.S.) Corp., a Delaware corporation, and the Stockholders from time to time party thereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with the terms thereof, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Joinder Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Governance Agreement.
Governance Agreement
By executing and delivering this Joinder Agreement to the Governance Agreement, the undersigned hereby agrees to become a party to, to be bound by, and to comply with the provisions of the Governance Agreement as a Stockholder. In connection therewith, effective as of the date hereof, the undersigned hereby makes the representations and warranties contained in the Governance Agreement as if made on the date hereof (other than the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.02(d)).
As of the date hereof, the Stockholder is the sole record owner and a Beneficial Owner of [ - ] Voting Securities, consisting of [], and as of the date hereof, such Voting Securities are the only securities of the Company and any of its subsidiaries (to the extent applicable) held of record or beneficially owned by such party.
set forth class and series of the Voting Securities
Accordingly, the undersigned has executed and delivered this Joinder Agreement as of the      day of                     ,             .
 
 

Exhibit 2.5
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A: Form of Joinder Agreement
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT is made as of January 18, 2011 by and among GNS II (U.S.) Corp, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic (as defined below) that will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" as of the Closing Date referred to below, (the ""), the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 10, 1995, as amended (the ""), Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended (""), Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended ("") and Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended ("", and together with the MAC Foundation, Acorn and Lilac, the "").
Company
MAC Foundation
Acorn
Lilac
Anne Ray Charitable Trust
MAC Trusts
RECITALS
WHEREAS, pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Merger and Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Company, The Mosaic Company (""), GNS Merger Sub LLC, a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (""), Cargill, Incorporated ("") and, for the limited purposes stated therein, the MAC Trusts, as it may be amended from time to time (the ""), on the Closing Date (as defined in the Merger and Distribution Agreement):
Mosaic
Merger Sub
Cargill
Merger and Distribution Agreement
(a) the certificate of incorporation of the Company will be amended (such amendment, the "") to, among other things, (x) authorize the issuance of (A) four series of shares of new Company Class A Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of Company Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote, (B) three series of shares of new Company Class B Common Stock (as defined below), with each share of each such series being entitled to ten (10) votes with respect to the election of directors and one (1) vote with respect to all other matters on which the holders of Company Class B Common Stock are entitled to vote, and (C) shares of Company Common Stock (as defined below), each share of which will be entitled to one (1) vote with respect to all matters on which the holders of Company Common Stock are entitled to vote; and (y) reclassify all of the shares of capital stock of the Company then held by Mosaic into shares of Company Common Stock to be held by Mosaic;
Company Charter Amendment
(b) after the effective time of the Company Charter Amendment, Merger Sub will merge with and into Mosaic (the "") (with Mosaic being the surviving corporation in the Merger) pursuant to which (i) Mosaic will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; (ii) a portion of the outstanding shares of common stock of Mosaic (the "") held by Cargill will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of the different series of Company Class A Common Stock and Company Class B Common Stock; and (ii) each of the other outstanding shares of Mosaic Common Stock (including a portion of the shares of Mosaic Common Stock held by Cargill) will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive shares of Company Common Stock; and
Merger
Mosaic Common Stock
(c) as promptly as practicable after the Merger Effective Time, Cargill will consummate a split-off transaction (the "") pursuant to which Cargill will exchange all of the shares of Company Class B Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock and
Split-off
Company Common Stock it receives in the Merger (other than certain specified shares) with stockholders of Cargill for outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by such stockholders of Cargill;
WHEREAS, under the terms of an exchange agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among Cargill and the MAC Trusts, as such agreement may be amended from time to time (the ""), the Split-off is to be effected, in part, by means of an exchange by Cargill of shares of Company Class B Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock and Company Common Stock with the MAC Trusts for all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cargill held by the MAC Trusts; and
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
WHEREAS, the Company has agreed to grant the MAC Trusts certain registration rights with respect to their Registrable Securities (as defined below) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement, and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions (as defined below), and for other valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. .
Defined Terms
1.1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Definitions
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Acorn
"" means public disclosure of material non-public information that, in the Board's good faith judgment: (i) would be required in order for the Company to comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (ii) would reasonably be expected either to materially interfere with any material transaction or event under consideration by the Company, or any negotiations, discussions or proposals relating thereto, or to otherwise be materially detrimental to the Company or its stockholders.
Adverse Disclosure
"" means this Registration Agreement, as this agreement may be amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time after the date hereof.
Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Anne Ray Charitable Trust
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Cargill
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Claims
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Company
"" means collectively, the Class A Common Stock, Series A-1, par value $0.01 per share, the Class A Common Stock, Series A-2, par value $0.01 per share, the Class A Common Stock, Series A-3, par value $0.01 per share and the Class A Common Stock, Series A-4, par value $0.01 per share, in each case having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Class A Common Stock
"" the Class B Common Stock, Series B-1, par value $0.01 per share, the Class B Common Stock, Series B-2, par value $0.01 per share and the Class B Common Stock, Series B-3, par value $0.01 per share, in each case having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such series of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Class B Common Stock
"" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, having the relative powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to such class of common stock as specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as it may be amended from time to time.
Company Common Stock
"" means the Company Common Stock, the Company Class A Common Stock and the Company Class B Common Stock.
Company Stock
"" means the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Transaction Documents.
Contemplated Transactions
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Effective Date
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means any and all fees and expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement, including: (i) SEC, stock exchange or FINRA registration and filing fees and all listing fees and fees with respect to the inclusion of securities on the New York Stock Exchange or on any other securities market on which the Company Common Stock is listed or quoted, (ii) fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or "blue sky" laws and in connection with the preparation of a "blue sky" survey, including reasonable fees and expenses of outside "blue sky" counsel, (iii) printing and copying expenses, (iv) messenger and delivery expenses, (v) expenses incurred in connection with any road show, (vi) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (vii) with respect to each offering, up to $20,000 of the fees and disbursements of a single counsel for the Participating Holders holding a majority of the shares to be included in such offering and (viii) fees and disbursements of all independent public accountants (including the expenses of any audit and/or "cold comfort" letter and updates thereof) and fees and expenses of other Persons, including special experts, retained by the Company, but excluding (x) any Underwriting Fees and transfer taxes, if any, relating to
Expenses
 
the securities registered by the Holders and (y) except as provided under clause (vii) above, all expenses and fees for all counsel and other professionals representing the Holders and any underwriters.
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
FINRA
"" means any Person who at any time is the holder of Registrable Securities and who is a party to this Agreement has executed and delivered to the Company a Joinder Agreement pursuant to the terms of Section 7.4.
Holder
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(t).
Inspectors
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Lilac
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
MAC Foundation
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
MAC Trusts
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
MAC Trusts Exchange Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger and Distribution Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger and Distribution Agreement.
Merger Effective Time
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Merger Sub
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
Mosaic
"" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
"" means, with respect to a registration for the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement in accordance with Section 2 or Section 3, the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such a Registration Statement in accordance herewith.
Participating Holders
"" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, governmental entity or agency or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
"" means a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of NASD Conduct Rule 2720.
Qualified Independent Underwriter
"" means (a) any shares of Company Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off, (b) any shares of Company Common Stock
Registrable Securities
 
issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company), directly or indirectly in exchange for, or upon conversion of, any shares of Company Class A Common Stock and/or Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off or upon conversion of, or in exchange for, any shares of Company Class A Common Stock issued or issuable (pursuant to the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, whether or not then convertible or exchangeable and notwithstanding that the right to convert or exchange may be subject to a vote of the stockholders of the Company) upon conversion of, or in exchange for, any shares of Company Class B Common Stock transferred by Cargill to the MAC Trusts pursuant to the Split-off, and (c) any and all securities of any kind whatsoever which may be issued after the consummation of the Split-off in respect of, in exchange for, or upon conversion of, the shares of Company Common Stock, Company Class A Common Stock or Company Class B Common Stock referenced in clause (a) or (b) above by way of a merger, consolidation, stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off or recapitalization of the Company or otherwise. As to any particular Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when such securities (i) shall have been disposed of pursuant any sale pursuant to a Registration Statement, (ii) shall have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act) or in a private transaction or (iii) shall have ceased to be outstanding.
"" means a registration statement for a public offering and/or sale of Company Common Stock filed with, or to be filed with, the SEC under the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Act pursuant to this Agreement, including any pre- and post-effective amendments and supplements thereto, and all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
Rule 144
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Sale Suspension
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" means a Registration Statement of the Company filed with the SEC on either (a) Form S-3 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act) or (b) if the Company is not permitted to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3, an evergreen Registration Statement on Form S-1 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act), in each case for an offering to be made on a continuous or delayed basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act covering Registrable Securities. To the extent the Company is a WKSI, a "Shelf Registration Statement" shall be deemed to refer to an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) (an "") on Form S-3 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act).
Shelf Registration Statement
automatic shelf registration statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Split-off
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Suspension Notice
"" means, with respect to any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement, the gross spread, commissions, fees or other compensation payable to all underwriters in such offering.
Underwriting Fees
"" means a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined under Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act.
WKSI
1.2. .
References; Interpretation
(a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, a Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article or a Section of, or an Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "," "" or "" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Unless otherwise specified, the words "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole (including the Exhibits hereto), and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, any noun or pronoun shall be deemed to cover all genders. All references in this Agreement to the number of shares of any securities shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or similar change in such securities which may be made by the issuer thereof after date of this Agreement. Any statute, rule, order or regulation defined or referred to in this Agreement or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to in this Agreement shall mean such statute, rule, order or regulation as from time to time amended, updated, modified, supplemented or superseded, including by succession of comparable successor statutes, rules, orders or regulations and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, to the extent that such amendment, update, modification, supplement or superseding statute, rule, order or regulation is applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.
include
includes
including
hereof
herein
hereunder
(b) The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as jointly drafted by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
2. .
Demand Registrations
2.1. . If the Split-off is consummated, at any time following the date that is 180 days following the fifty-four (54) month anniversary of the Split-off (the
Requests for Registration
 
"Effective Date"), the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) may, subject to Section 2.2, request registration under the Securities Act of all or any portion of their Registrable Securities on Form S-3 or any similar short-form registration statement (a ""). If for any reason the Company is not eligible to file a Demand Registration on Form S-3 or any similar short-form registration statement, then the Company shall effect such Demand Registration using such form as the Company is then eligible to use. Each request for a Demand Registration shall specify the approximate number of Registrable Securities requested to be registered and the intended method of distribution. Within ten days after receipt of any such request, the Company shall give written notice of such requested registration to all other holders who may have registration rights with respect to its securities and, subject to Section 2.3, may include as part of such Demand Registration all other securities with respect to which the Company has received written requests for inclusion therein within 15 days after the receipt of the Company's notice by such holders.
Demand Registration
2.2. . The MAC Trusts collectively shall be entitled, subject to Section 2.4, to request two (2) Demand Registrations with respect to Registrable Securities; , that the Company shall not be required to effect any registration pursuant any such request (and any such request will not count as a request made under this Section 2.2) unless the expected sale price of the shares of Registrable Securities to be included thereunder is at least $100,000,000 (based on the most recent closing price of the Common Stock at the time of the request). The Company may in its sole discretion file such Demand Registration on a Shelf Registration Statement.
Limitations on Demand Registrations
provided
2.3. . If a Demand Registration is an underwritten offering and the managing underwriter advises the Company that, in their opinion, the number of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such offering exceeds the number of securities which can be sold therein without adversely affecting the marketability of the offering, the Company shall first include in such registration, prior to the inclusion of any securities which are not Registrable Securities, the Registrable Securities requested to be included by the MAC Trusts which in the opinion of such underwriter can be sold without adversely affecting the marketability of the offering.
Priority on Demand Registrations
2.4. . The Company shall not be obligated to effect any Demand Registration within 180 days after the effective date of any other Registration Statement (other than pursuant to registrations related solely to employee benefit plans or a Rule 145 transaction). Furthermore, at any time following the Effective Date, if sales by the Participating Holders pursuant to this Agreement would at any time require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure, the Company may, by giving prior written notice to the Participating Holders (a "Suspension Notice"), require the Participating Holders to suspend sales pursuant to this Agreement, and elect not to proceed with any Demand Registration (a "Sale Suspension"); provided, that the Company shall not be permitted to require a Sale Suspension (i) more than two (2) times during any twelve (12) month period and (ii) the Sale Suspension shall terminate upon the earlier to occur of (i) 120 days following the date of the applicable Suspension Notice and the (ii) date on which the Adverse Disclosure shall cease to exist. In the case of a Sale Suspension, the Participating Holders agree to suspend use of the applicable prospectus and any free writing prospectuses in connection with any sale of, or offer to sell, Registrable Securities, upon receipt of the Suspension Notice and the Company shall immediately notify the Participating Holders
Restrictions on Registration
 
upon the termination of any Sale Suspension. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that a request is made for a Demand Registration pursuant hereto, but is not effected as the result of a Sale Suspension, the MAC Trusts shall be entitled to withdraw such request and such request shall not count as one of the two (2) permitted requests for a Demand Registration hereunder.
2.5. . Each of the Company and the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) shall have the right to select one joint book running managing underwriter for any offering in connection with a Demand Registration requested by the MAC Trusts. Each of the joint book running managing underwriters shall be entitled to participate in due diligence, structuring, marketing, general execution, pricing and book building in connection with such offering.
Selection of Underwriters
3. .
Piggyback Registration
3.1. . At any time on or after the Effective Date, whenever the Company proposes to register any of its equity securities under the Securities Act (other than pursuant to a Demand Registration, which shall be governed by Section 2, and registrations related solely to employee benefit plans or a Rule 145 transaction) and the registration form to be used may be used for the registration of Registrable Securities (a ""), the Company shall give prompt written notice to the MAC Trusts of its intention to effect such a registration and, subject to the terms hereof (including Section 3.2), shall include in such registration all Registrable Securities with respect to which the Company has received written requests for inclusion therein within 10 Business Days after such holders receive the Company's notice.
Right to Piggyback
Piggyback Registration
3.2. . If a Piggyback Registration is an underwritten registration on behalf of the Company, and the managing underwriter advises the Company in writing that in their opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such registration exceeds the number which can be sold therein without adversely affecting the marketability of the offering, the Company shall include in such registration (a) first, the securities the Company proposes to sell, (b) second, the Registrable Securities requested to be included in such registration by the MAC Trusts and (c) third, other securities requested to be included in such registration, among the respective holders thereof on the basis of the amount of shares requested to be sold by each such holder.
Priority on Primary Registrations
pro rata
3.3. . The Company shall have the right to select the investment banker(s) and manager(s) to administer the offering in connection with any Piggyback Registration.
Selection of Underwriters
4. . Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall not effect any public sale or distribution (including sales pursuant to Rule 144) of equity securities of the Company, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities, or engage in any hedging transactions relating to the same, during the 30-day period prior to and the 90-day period beginning on the effective date of any underwritten Demand Registration or any underwritten Piggyback Registration, in each case pursuant to which such holder's Registrable Securities are included (except as part of such underwritten registration), unless the underwriters managing the registered public offering agree otherwise.
Holdback Agreement
 
5. .
Registration Procedures
Whenever the MAC Trusts have requested that Registrable Securities be registered pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to:
(a) prepare and file with the SEC as promptly as practicable (but in any event within forty-five (45) days after the receipt of any request relating thereto) a Registration Statement (or prepare and file with the SEC all necessary or appropriate amendments and supplements to any then effective Registration Statement) to allow for the disposition of Registrable Securities, each such Registration Statement shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable registration form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated therein, and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause each such Registration Statement (or amendment) to be declared or become effective as promptly as reasonably practicable, but in any event within sixty (60) days after the filing thereof (or fifteen (15) days if such registration statement shall have received a "no review" or "limited review" by the staff of the SEC) (, , that before filing a Registration Statement or prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, or comparable statements under securities or state "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction, or any free writing prospectus related thereto, the Company will furnish to counsel for the MAC Trusts and to counsel for the underwriters, if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed (including all exhibits thereto), which documents will be subject to the reasonable review and reasonable comment of such counsel, and, before filing any such document, including any such Registration Statement or amendment thereto, any prospectus or supplement thereto or any free writing prospectus related thereto, the Company shall make any changes thereto that MAC Trusts or the underwriters, if any, shall reasonably request;
provided
however
(b) use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective until the distribution described in the applicable Registration Statement has been completed (or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, a period ending on the earlier of (i) the date on which all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration or have otherwise ceased to be Registrable Securities, and (ii) the 24-month anniversary of the effective date of such Shelf Registration), and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the sale or other disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the Participating Holders set forth in such Registration Statement (and, in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, file one or more prospectus amendments or supplements covering Registrable Securities permitted to be sold thereunder upon the request of one or more Holders entitled to offer or sell Registrable Securities under such Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the terms hereof);
(c) in connection with any underwritten offering effected under this Agreement, enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting agreement, in customary form and on customary terms for the particular offering with the underwriters of such offering;
 
(d) furnish, without charge, to each Participating Holder, and each underwriter, if any, such number of copies of the prospectus included in the Registration Statement with respect to such offering (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus), any other prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act and each free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, in each case, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, and other documents, as such Participating Holder or underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities by such Participating Holder or such underwriter (the Company hereby consents to the use in accordance with all applicable law of each such prospectus (or preliminary prospectus or supplement thereto) or free writing prospectus by each such Participating Holder and the underwriters, if any, in connection with the offering and sale in accordance with the terms hereof of the Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or prospectus);
(e) to register or qualify the Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement under such other securities or state "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as the MAC Trusts (acting jointly) or managing underwriter, if any, shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the Participating Holders and underwriters, if any, to consummate the disposition of the Registrable Securities in such jurisdictions (including keeping such registration or qualification in effect for so long as such Registration Statement remains in effect), except that in no event shall the Company be required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction where it would not, but for the requirements of this paragraph (e), be required to be so qualified, to subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or to consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction;
(f) promptly notify each Participating Holder and each managing underwriter, if any: (i) when any such Registration Statement or any prospectus, prospectus supplement or any free writing prospectus relating thereto has been filed and, with respect to such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment related thereto, when the same has become effective; (ii) of any request by the SEC or state securities authority for amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or any prospectus, prospectus supplement or free writing prospectus related thereto or for additional information; (iii) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose; (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of any Registrable Securities for sale under the securities or state "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; (v) unless in connection with a Sale Suspension, subject to the execution by the prospective recipient of a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company, of the existence of any fact of which the Company becomes aware which results in (x) any such Registration Statement as of the date it became effective under the Securities Act, containing an untrue statement of any material fact or omitting to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading or (y) any prospectus, prospectus supplement (when taken together with the related prospectus) or free writing prospectus (when taken as a whole with any other free writing prospectus and the related prospectus supplement and prospectus), in each case including any document incorporated therein by reference, as of its date, containing an untrue statement of a material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the
 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (vi) if at any time the representations and warranties made by the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sale agreement, or other similar agreement, relating to the offering shall cease to be true and correct in any material respect; and, if the notification relates to an event described in clause (v), the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts (when, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, it is appropriate to disclose), in each case, to promptly prepare and file with the SEC, and furnish to each Participating Holder and each underwriter, if any, a reasonable number of copies of, an amendment or supplement to such document, or a free writing prospectus, so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such document (when taken as a whole with any related prospectus, prospectus supplement and free writing prospectus) shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company shall have no such obligation during any Sale Suspension;
provided
(g) permit any Participating Holder which, might reasonably be deemed to be an underwriter or a controlling person of the Company, to participate in the preparation of such Registration Statement or comparable statement;
(h) comply (and continue to comply) in all material respects with all rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to the Company, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and make generally available to the Company's securityholders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act no later than ninety (90) days after the end of the twelve (12) month period beginning with the first day of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of any such Registration Statement, which earnings statement shall cover said twelve (12) month period, and which requirement will be deemed to be satisfied if the Company timely files complete and accurate (in all material respects) information on Forms 10-Q, 10-K and 8-K under the Exchange Act and otherwise complies with Rule 158 under the Securities Act;
(i) (x) (A) cause all such Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement to be listed on the principal securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed (if any), if and when the listing of such Registrable Securities is then permitted under the rules of such exchange, or (B) if no similar securities are then so listed, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on a national securities exchange and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing take all reasonable actions that may be required by the Company as the issuer of such Registrable Securities in order to facilitate the managing underwriter's arranging for the registration of at least two market makers as such with respect to such shares with FINRA, and (y) comply (and continue to comply) in all material respects with the requirements of any self-regulatory organization applicable to the Company including all corporate governance requirements;
(j) cooperate with each Participating Holder and each managing underwriter and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA;
 
(k) provide and cause to be maintained a transfer agent and registrar for all such Registrable Securities covered by any such Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement;
(l) enter into such customary agreements (including, if applicable, an underwriting agreement in customary form and on customary terms and containing customary provisions regarding indemnification) and take such other actions as the Leading Participating Holders or the underwriters shall reasonably request in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement in accordance with this Agreement, including if necessary the engagement of a Qualified Independent Underwriter in connection with the qualification of the underwriting arrangements with FINRA (it being understood that the Holders of the Registrable Securities which are to be distributed by any underwriters shall be parties to any such underwriting agreement, shall make to and for the benefit of the Company the representations, warranties and covenants of such Holders which are being made to and for the benefit of the underwriters, and may, at their option, require that the Company make to and for the benefit of such Holders the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company which are being made to and for the benefit of such underwriters);
(m) (i) obtain an opinion from the Company's counsel and a "cold comfort" letter and updates thereof from the Company's independent public accountants who have certified the Company's financial statements included or incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, each in customary form and covering such matters as are customarily covered by such opinions and "cold comfort" letters (including, in the case of such "cold comfort" letter, events subsequent to the date of such financial statements) as the underwriters, if any, participating in the offering reasonably requests, which opinions and letters shall be dated the dates such opinions and "cold comfort" letters are customarily dated and otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the underwriters, if any, and to the sellers, and (ii) furnish to each seller and to each underwriter, if any, participating in the offering, a copy of each such opinion and letter, each of which shall be addressed to both the sellers and the underwriters participating in such offering;
(n) deliver promptly to counsel for the MAC Trusts and to each managing underwriter, if any, copies of all correspondence between the SEC and the Company, its counsel or auditors and all non-privileged memoranda relating to discussions with the SEC or its staff with respect to any such Registration Statement, and, upon receipt of such confidentiality agreements as the Company may reasonably request;
(o) obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement, or the prompt lifting of any suspension of the qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction;
(p) provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities, not later than the effective date of any such Registration Statement;
(q) with respect to an underwritten offering, make reasonably available its management, employees and personnel for participation in "road shows" and other marketing efforts and otherwise provide reasonable assistance to the underwriters in marketing the Registrable Securities in any offering contemplated by this Agreement;
 
(r) to the extent reasonably practicable, and subject to execution by the prospective recipient of a customary confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company, prior to the filing of any document which is to be incorporated by reference into any such Registration Statement or the prospectus (after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), and prior to the filing of any free writing prospectus, provide copies of such document to counsel for the MAC Trusts, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to make the Company's representatives reasonably available for discussion of such document;
(s) furnish to counsel for the MAC Trusts, without charge, at least one conformed copy of any such Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments or supplements thereto, including financial statements (but excluding all schedules and documents incorporated therein by reference), the prospectus contained in such Registration Statement (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus), any other prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act and all exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) and any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, in each case, as filed with the SEC, and provided that the Company may satisfy such obligation by furnishing an electronic copy thereof or by notifying the MAC Trusts of the website address thereof;
(t) promptly make available for inspection, during normal business hours at the offices of the Company and upon reasonable advance notice, by the MAC Trusts or underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to any Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent or representative retained by any the MAC Trusts or underwriter (collectively, the ""), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement (which may be subject to the execution by the prospective recipient thereof of a customary confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company) and otherwise reasonably cooperate with the diligence investigation by any such Inspector;
Inspectors
(u) take no direct or indirect action prohibited by Regulation M under the Exchange Act; , , that to the extent that any prohibition is applicable to the Company, the Company will take such reasonable action as is necessary and feasible to make any such prohibition inapplicable;
provided
however
(v) take all such other reasonable actions necessary on the part of the Company in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities;
(w) take all such reasonable actions necessary on the part of the Company to ensure that any free writing prospectus utilized in connection with any Registration Statement complies in all material respects with the Securities Act, is filed in accordance with the Securities Act to the extent required thereby and is retained in accordance with the Securities Act to the extent required thereby; and
(x) if at any time the information conveyed to a purchaser at the time of sale includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to
 
make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, use its commercially reasonable efforts to promptly file with the SEC such amendments or supplements to such information as may be necessary so that the statements as so amended or supplemented will not, in light of the circumstances, be misleading.
The Company may require that each Participating Holder as to which any registration is being effected furnish the Company a selling securityholder questionnaire customary for offerings of this type and that each such Participating Holder and any underwriter furnish the Company such other information regarding themselves and the Registrable Securities held by them as the Company may from time to time reasonably request provided that such information shall be used only in connection with such registration and the Company shall have no responsibility to any Participating Holder with respect to such information included in any Registration Statement, prospectus, amendment or supplement thereto or other document.
5.2. . All Expenses incurred in connection with any offering, registration, filing, qualification or compliance pursuant to this Agreement shall be borne by the Company, whether or not a Registration Statement becomes effective. All Underwriting Fees and transfer taxes, if any, relating to securities registered by the Holders shall be borne by the Holders of such securities pro rata in accordance with the number of shares sold in the offering by such Holders.
Registration Expenses
5.3. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create an independent obligation on the part of any Holder to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to any effective Registration Statement.
No Required Sale
5.4. .
Indemnification
(a) In the event of any registration and/or offering of any Registrable Securities under the Securities Act pursuant to this Agreement, the Company will, and hereby agrees to, and hereby does indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, each Participating Holder and its directors, officers, trustees, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners (and the directors, officers, trustees, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners thereof), and each Person, if any, who controls such Participating Holder , within the meaning of the Securities Act or Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, actions or proceedings (whether commenced or threatened) and expenses (including reasonable fees of counsel and any amounts paid in any settlement effected with the Company's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to which each such indemnified party may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise (collectively, ""), insofar as such Claims arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances in which they were made not misleading, or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary or final prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, together with the documents incorporated by reference therein, or any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material
Claims
 
fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Company agrees to reimburse any such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim that is threatened or commenced (whether or not the indemnified party is designated as an actual or potential party to such Claim) and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above, as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Company shall not be liable to any such indemnified party in any such case to the extent such Claim (including any legal or other expenses) arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact made in such Registration Statement or amendment thereof or supplement thereto or in any such prospectus or any preliminary or final prospectus or free writing prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such indemnified party or any underwriters selected by such indemnified party specifically for use therein. Such indemnity and reimbursement of expenses shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of such indemnified party and shall survive the transfer of such securities by such Holder.
provided
however
(b) Each Participating Holder shall, severally and not jointly, indemnify and hold harmless (in the same manner as set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 5.4) to the fullest extent permitted by law the Company and each officer of the Company who shall sign such Registration Statement, its directors, officers, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners (and the directors, officers, fiduciaries, employees, stockholders, members or general and limited partners thereof), each Person controlling the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and any other Holder selling securities in such Registration Statement and each of its directors, officers, partners or agents or any Person who controls such Holder with respect to any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact in, or omission or alleged omission of any material fact from, such Registration Statement, any preliminary or final prospectus contained therein, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any free writing prospectus utilized in connection therewith, if such statement or alleged statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or any of its representatives by or on behalf of such Participating Holder, specifically for use in connection with the preparation of such Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus, final prospectus, amendment, supplement or free writing prospectus and reimburse such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that the aggregate amount which any such Participating Holder shall be required to pay pursuant to this Section 5.4(b) and Section 5.4(c) shall be in proportion to, and in no case be greater than, the amount of the net proceeds actually received by such Participating Holder upon the sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement giving rise to such Claim. The Company and each Participating Holder hereby acknowledge and agree that, unless otherwise expressly agreed to in writing by such Participating Holders to the contrary, or as otherwise required by SEC rules, for all purposes of this Agreement, the only information furnished or to be furnished to the Company by a Participating Holder for use in any such Registration Statement, preliminary or final prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto or any free writing prospectus are statements specifically relating to (a) the beneficial ownership of shares of capital stock of the Company by such
provided
however
 
Participating Holder and its Affiliates and (b) the name and address of such Participating Holder. Such indemnity and reimbursement of expenses shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of such indemnified party and shall survive the transfer of such securities by such Holder.
(c) Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Agreement shall notify promptly the indemnifying party or parties in writing of the commencement of any action or proceeding with respect to which a claim for indemnification may be made pursuant to this Section 5.4, but the failure of any indemnified party to provide such notice shall not relieve the indemnifying party of its obligations under the preceding paragraphs of this Section 5.4, except to the extent an indemnifying party is materially and actually prejudiced thereby and shall not relieve any indemnifying party from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under this Section 5.4. In case any action or proceeding is brought against an indemnified party, an indemnifying party shall be entitled to (x) participate in such action or proceeding and (y), unless, in the reasonable opinion of outside counsel to the indemnified party, a conflict of interest between such indemnified and indemnifying parties may exist in respect of such claim, assume the defense thereof jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. An indemnifying party shall promptly notify the indemnified party of its decision to participate in such action or proceeding. If, and after, the indemnified party has received such notice from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense of such action or proceeding other than reasonable costs of investigation; , , that (i) if the indemnifying party fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently the action or proceeding within twenty (20) days after receiving notice from such indemnified party that the indemnified party believes it has failed to do so; or (ii) if such indemnified party who is a defendant in any action or proceeding which is also brought against the indemnifying party reasonably shall have concluded that there may be one or more legal or equitable defenses available to such indemnified party which are not available to the indemnifying party or which may conflict with those available to another indemnified party with respect to such Claim; or (iii) if representation of both parties by the same counsel is otherwise inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct, then, in any such case, the indemnified party shall have the right to assume or continue its own defense as set forth above (but with no more than one firm of counsel for all indemnified parties in each jurisdiction, except to the extent any indemnified party or parties reasonably shall have made a conclusion described in clause (ii) or (iii) above) and the indemnifying party shall be liable for any expenses therefor. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or Claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder by such indemnified party (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or Claim) unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any Claims that are the subject of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of such indemnified party.
provided
however
(d) If for any reason the foregoing indemnity is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to an indemnified party or is insufficient to hold harmless an
 
indemnified party under Section 5.4(a) or Section 5.4(b), then each applicable indemnifying party, severally and not jointly, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable to such indemnified party as a result of any Claim in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party, on the one hand, and the indemnified party, on the other hand, with respect to such Claim as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault shall be determined by a court by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the indemnifying party or the indemnified party and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. If, however, the allocation provided in the second preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative faults but also the relative benefits of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if any contribution pursuant to this Section 5.4(d) were to be determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the preceding sentences of this Section 5.4(d). The amount paid or payable in respect of any Claim shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such Claim. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5.4(d) to the contrary, no indemnifying party (other than the Company) shall be required pursuant to this Section 5.4(d) to contribute any amount greater than the amount of the net proceeds actually received by such indemnifying party upon the sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement giving rise to such Claim, less the amount of any indemnification payment made by such indemnifying party pursuant to Section 5.4(b).
(e) The indemnity and contribution agreements contained herein shall be in addition to any other rights to indemnification or contribution which any indemnified party may have pursuant to law or contract and shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made or omitted by or on behalf of any indemnified party and shall survive the Transfer of the Registrable Securities by any such party and the completion of any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement.
 
6. . The right of any Holder to include its Registrable Securities in any underwritten offering pursuant to this Agreement shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation in the underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided herein. No Holder may participate in such underwriting unless such Holder (x) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements reasonably customary and negotiated for the particular offering by the party specified herein with the underwriter or underwriters selected for such underwriting in accordance with this Agreement and (y) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, custody agreements, opinions and other documents, in each case, in reasonably customary form and negotiated for the particular offering by the party specified herein with the selected underwriters.
Underwritten Offerings
7. .
General
7.1. . If Registrable Securities are held by a nominee for the beneficial owner thereof, the beneficial owner thereof may, at its option, be treated as the Holder of such Registrable Securities for the purposes of any request or other action by any Holder or Holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement (or any determination of any number or percentage of shares constituting Registrable Securities held by any Holder or Holders of Registrable Securities contemplated by this Agreement), provided that the Company shall have received assurances reasonably satisfactory to it of such beneficial ownership.
Nominees for Beneficial Owners
7.2. . Any provision of this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) only with the written consent of the Company and the Holders representing a majority of the Registrable Securities. Any amendment, modification or supplement of any provision of this Agreement effected in accordance with this Section 7.3 shall be binding on all parties to this Agreement. Any waiver of any breach or default by any other party of any of the terms of this Agreement effected in accordance with this Section 7.3 shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by any party to assert its or his or her rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
Amendments and Waivers
 
7.3. . Unless otherwise expressly set forth herein, all notices and other communications given or made pursuant hereto shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (i) as of the date delivered, if delivered personally; (ii) on the date the delivering party receives confirmation, if delivered by facsimile or electronic mail; (iii) three (3) Business Days after being mailed by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested); or (iv) one (1) Business Day after being sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery), to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 7.4) or to any other applicable Holder at the address for such Holder set forth in a Joinder Agreement executed and delivered by such Holder to the Company (or at such other address for a Holder as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
 
GNS II (U.S.) Corp.
The Mosaic Company
Atria Corporate Center, Suite E490
3033 Campus Drive
Plymouth, MN 55441
Attention: Richard L. Mack
with a copy (which copy alone shall not constitute notice) to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017-3954
 
Christine M Morse and Paul G. Bush
as Co-Trustees of the Acorn Trust,
Anne Ray Charitable Trust, Lilac Trust and
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
6889 Rowland Road
Eden Prairie MN 55344
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Loeb & Loeb LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10 154-1895
Attention: David S. Schaefer, Esq.
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to
Loeb & Loeb LLP
10100 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 2200
Los Angeles CA 90067
 
 
7.4. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all covenants and agreements in this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; , , that no holder or transferee of Registrable Securities shall have any rights of a Holder (i) without the prior written consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and (ii) until such person shall have executed and delivered to the Company a Joinder Agreement and thereupon become a Holder hereunder.
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
7.5. . Other than as expressly contemplated in Section 5.4, this Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties and their respective successors and assigns and nothing herein express or implied shall give or shall be construed to confer any legal or equitable rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Third Party Beneficiaries
7.6. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersede any prior agreement or understanding among them with respect to the matters referred to herein.
Entire Agreement
7.7. . If the Merger and Distribution Agreement is terminated at any time prior to the Merger Effective Time, this Agreement shall terminate automatically. This Agreement shall terminate with respect to a Holder on the date on which such Holder ceases to hold Registrable Securities; , that such Holder's rights and obligations pursuant to Section 5.4, as well as the Company's obligations to pay Expenses pursuant to Section 5.4, shall survive with respect to any registration statement in which any Registrable Securities of such Holder were included and, for the avoidance of doubt, any underwriter lock-up that a Holder has executed prior to a Holder's termination in accordance with this clause shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
Termination; Existing Registration Rights Agreement
provided
7.8. . This Agreement is governed by and will be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, excluding any conflict-of-laws rule or principle (whether of New York or any other jurisdiction) that might refer the governance or the construction of this Agreement to the law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
7.9. .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a) All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware or, in the event that such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over such action or proceeding, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware, and the parties to this Agreement irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and, in the case of appeals, appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive the defense of an
 
inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. The consents to jurisdiction set forth in this paragraph shall not constitute general consents to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this paragraph and shall not be deemed to confer rights on any Person other than the parties hereto. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each of the parties to this Agreement consents to service being made through the notice procedures set forth in Section 7.4 and agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail (return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid) to the respective addresses of the parties set forth in Section 7.4 shall be effective service of process for any suit or proceeding in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable law.
(b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
7.10. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
7.11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such provision shall be construed by limiting it so as to be valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent provided by law and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
7.12. .
Specific Performance; Legal Expenses
(a) It is hereby agreed and acknowledged that it will be impossible to measure the money damages that would be suffered if the parties fail to comply with any of the obligations imposed on them by this Agreement and that, in the event of any such failure, an aggrieved party will be irreparably damaged and will not have an adequate remedy at law. Each party hereto shall, therefore, be entitled (in addition to any other remedy to which such party may be entitled at law or in equity) to injunctive relief, including specific performance, to enforce such obligations, without the posting of any bond, and if any action should be brought in equity to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, none of the parties hereto shall raise the defense that there is an adequate remedy at law.
(b) Each party agrees and acknowledges that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the prevailing party in any action or proceeding to enforce this Agreement shall be entitled to recover from the non-prevailing party or parties all court costs, counsel fees, and other costs or expenses incurred by the prevailing party in connection with such action, including in enforcing this Section 7.13 and proving the amounts to which the prevailing party is entitled pursuant hereto.
 
7.13. . Each party hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to do and perform or cause to be done and performed all such further acts and things and shall execute and deliver all such other agreements, certificates, instruments, and documents as any other party hereto reasonably may request in order to carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Further Assurances
 
, each of the following parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
The undersigned is executing and delivering this Joinder Agreement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2011 by and among GNS II (U.S.) Corp, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic (as defined below) that will change its name to "The Mosaic Company" as of the Closing Date referred to below (the ""), the Margaret A. Cargill Foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 10, 1995, as amended, Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended, Lilac Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended and Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended.
Company
By executing and delivering this Joinder Agreement, the undersigned hereby agrees to become a party to the Registration Agreement as a Holder.
As of the date hereof, the undersigned is the holder of the following Registrable Securities:
[Specify Registrable Securities held by the undersigned]
The undersigned hereby executes and delivers to the Company this Joinder Agreement as of the day of , .
    
                    
        
 
 
 


