FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110519205441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
The Mosaic Company issued a press release on May 19, 2011 announcing the pricing of a registered secondary offering of 100 million shares of common stock pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 filed by GNS II (U.S.) Corp. with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offering, as well as the concurrent transactions relating to the recapitalization of Mosaic stock, is expected to close on May 25, 2011.
A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
In addition, on May 18, 2011, GNS II (U.S.) Corp. filed an issuer free writing prospectus relating to the registered secondary offering containing information relating to trading and settlement of shares of Mosaic and GNS common stock through May 25, 2011.
A copy of the free writing prospectus is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibits furnished herewith. The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index hereto are being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
MEDIA CONTACT:           Rob Litt, 763-577-6187
INVESTOR CONTACT:     Laura Gagnon, 763-577-8213
PLYMOUTH, MN, May 19, 2011 - The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that a secondary offering (the "offering") of 100 million shares of its common stock, related to Cargill, Incorporated's exchange of its approximately 64 percent interest in Mosaic with Cargill stockholders and certain debt holders, has priced at a public offering price of $65 per share.
The secondary offering is comprised of 92.5 million shares owned by Cargill's debt holders following a debt-for-equity exchange and 7.5 million shares owned by a charitable trust and foundation formed through the estate planning of Margaret A. Cargill. In addition, the underwriters have been granted a 30-day option to purchase up to 15 million additional shares from certain of the selling stockholders to cover over-allotments, if any.
The shares to be sold in the offering consist of common stock of GNS II (U.S.) Corp., currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mosaic. Pursuant to the restructuring transactions related to the split-off of Mosaic from Cargill, GNS II will become the parent of Mosaic and will be renamed The Mosaic Company. Completion of the offering will be conditioned on completion of the restructuring transactions. Neither Mosaic nor GNS II will receive any proceeds from the offering and there will be no change to the number of outstanding shares or earnings per share of Mosaic as a result of the transaction. The offering, as well as the transactions described above, including the recapitalization of Mosaic stock, is expected to close on May 25, 2011.
A registration statement on Form S-1 relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and became effective on May 19, 2011. This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any offer of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC served as the joint book-running managers for the offering. A prospectus relating to the offering has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available at its website www.sec.gov. A copy of the prospectus may be requested from one of the following banks involved in the transaction.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Attention: Credit Suisse Prospectus Department
One Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10010
Telephone: (800) 221-1037
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions
1155 Long Island Avenue
Edgewood, NY 11717
Telephone: (866) 803-9204
UBS Securities LLC
Attention: Prospectus Department
299 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10171
Telephone: (888) 827-7275
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.

Exhibit 99.2
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-172253
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus dated May 18, 2011
Relating to Preliminary Prospectus dated May 12, 2011
Based upon information currently available, the transaction described in the merger and distribution agreement between The Mosaic Company and Cargill, including the recapitalization of Mosaic stock, is expected to close on May 25, 2011. In addition, the registered secondary offering of Mosaic stock being conducted in conjunction with the merger transactions is expected to be priced following the close of business on May 19, 2011 and to close on May 25, 2011 following the merger. Additional information relating to settlement of trading in Mosaic common stock during this period is set forth below:
Merger TransactionExchange of Existing Shares
 
 
 
 
Initial Formation OfferingSettlement of New Shares
 
 
 
 
GNS II (U.S.) Corp. has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents GNS II (U.S.) Corp. has filed with the SEC for more complete information about GNS II (U.S.) Corp. and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, GNS II (U.S.) Corp., any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-800-221-1037.
www.sec.gov


