FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20111024123535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On October 24, 2011, The Mosaic Company (the "Company") closed its sale of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.750% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.875% Senior Notes due 2041 (the "2041 Notes" and together with the 2021 Notes, the "Notes") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated October 17, 2011, among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the "Underwriting Agreement"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of October 24, 2011 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Indenture").
The Company expects to receive net proceeds from this offering of approximately $735.1 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and its estimated offering expenses. The Company intends to use approximately $505.0 million of the net proceeds from this offering to redeem the 7-5/8% senior notes due 2016 of its subsidiary, MOS Holdings Inc., which are redeemable beginning December 2011 and the remainder for general corporate purposes.
The Notes sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement were registered under the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on October 12, 2011 (File No. 333-177251) (the "Registration Statement").
The foregoing descriptions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, the 2021 Notes and the 2041 Notes are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibits filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
October 17 2011                                
,
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
            One Bryant Park
                New York, NY 10036
Barclays Capital Inc.
            745 Seventh Avenue
                New York, NY 10019
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
            1585 Broadway
                New York, NY 10036
Dear Sirs:
1. . The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (""), for which Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as representatives (the ""), to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.750% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.875% Senior Notes due 2041 (the "", and together with the 2021 Securities, the ""). The Offered Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of October 24, 2011 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the 2021 Securities and the 2041 Securities will be established pursuant to an officers' certificate.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Representatives
2021 Securities
2041 Securities
Offered Securities
Indenture
Trustee
 
2. (a) . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(i) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-177251), including a related prospectus or prospectuses covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective. at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
"Registration Statement"
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
means 4:00 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
"Applicable Time"
"has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date"
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("").
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
Exchange Rules
with reference to a particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
"Statutory Prospectus"
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Trust Indenture Act
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(ii) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Offered Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(c) hereof, specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(c) hereof.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
(iii) (i) (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status.
 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
(A) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement. If immediately prior to the Renewal Deadline (as hereinafter defined), any of the Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 180 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Offered Securities. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be. "" means the third anniversary of the initial effective time of the Registration Statement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Renewal Deadline
(B) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time when Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
(C) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
(iv) (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, including (x) the Company or any subsidiary of the Company in the preceding three years not having been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or having been made the subject of a judicial or administrative decree or order as described in Rule 405 and (y) the Company or any subsidiary of the Company in the preceding three years not having been the subject of a bankruptcy petition or insolvency or similar proceeding, not having had a registration statement be the subject of a proceeding under Section 8 of the Act and not being the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the Act in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, all as described in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status.
(v) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the Statutory Prospectus identified in Schedule B to this Agreement and any other documents listed or disclosures identified in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the general disclosure package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Statutory Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
(vi) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
(vii) (i) The Company and each of its subsidiaries has been duly organized and is existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with corporate, limited liability company or partnership power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and (ii) the Company and each of its subsidiaries is duly qualified to do business in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except (A) to the extent that the concept of due organization, good standing or qualification to do business is not recognized or embodied in the laws of any such jurisdiction or (B) where the failure to be so qualified, or in good standing or have such power and authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, financial position or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "").
Good Standing.
Material Adverse Effect
(viii) All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable (except that (1) certain of the subsidiaries are partnerships or joint ventures or export associations for which partners or members may be liable for the obligations of the partnership or joint venture or export association or subject to obligations to contribute additional capital or similar obligations, (2) certain Canadian subsidiaries of the Company are unlimited liability companies for which the holders of the equity interests thereof have unlimited liability for obligations of such companies, (3) provisions of various foreign laws or regulations applicable to, or the constituent documents of, foreign subsidiaries may impose obligations to contribute additional capital or impose liability for obligations of the subsidiary on holders of the equity interests thereof, and (4) the concept of validly authorized and issued capital stock or other equity interests or of fully paid and non-assessable capital stock or other equity interests may not be recognized or embodied in the laws of various foreign jurisdictions) and (except, in the case of any foreign subsidiary, for directors' qualifying shares) the capital stock of each subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects.
Subsidiaries.
(ix) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; the Offered Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, each of the Offered Securities will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Offered Securities will have been authenticated and will conform to the information in the General Disclosure Package and to the description of such Offered Securities in the Final Prospectus; and the Indenture and the Offered Securities, at the Closing Date, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
Execution and Delivery of the Indenture
 
(x) Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any person that would give rise to a valid claim against the Company or any Underwriter for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other like payment in connection with this offering.
No Finder's Fee.
(xi) Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Act with respect to any securities of the Company owned or to be owned by such person or to require the Company to include such securities in the securities registered pursuant to a Registration Statement or in any securities being registered pursuant to any other registration statement filed by the Company under the Act.
Registration Rights.
(xii) No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing or registration with, any person (including any governmental agency or body or any court) is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the sale of the Offered Securities, except (x) such as have been obtained, or made or that will have been obtained, or made, prior to the Closing Date, (y) for those as to which the failure to obtain or make would not, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and (z) as may be required under state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements.
(xiii) . The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title in fee simple to, or have valid rights to lease or otherwise use, all items of real and personal property owned by them in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, claims and defects and imperfections of title, except those that (i) do not materially interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company and its subsidiaries, (ii) would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) are disclosed in the General Disclosure Package.
Title to Property
(xiv) The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and this Agreement, and the issuance and sale of the Offered Securities and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to (A) the charter or by-laws (or similar organizational documents) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties or (C) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, except, in the cases of clause (B) or (C), for those that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction.
 
(xv) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws (or similar organizational documents) or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts.
(xvi) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement.
(xvii) Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries possess, and are in compliance with the terms of, all adequate certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and permits ("") necessary to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them, except where the failure to possess or comply with any such License would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Licenses that would individually or in the aggregate be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits.
Licenses
(xviii) . No labor disturbance by or dispute with employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, or, to the knowledge of the Company, is contemplated or threatened, and to the knowledge of the Company, no dispute with the employees of any of the Company's or any of the Company's subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers exists or is imminent, except, in each case, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Disputes
(xix) Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess adequate rights to use all material patents, patent applications, trademarks, service marks, trade names, trademark registrations, service mark registrations, copyrights, licenses and know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures) (collectively, "") necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses; and (x) the conduct of their respective businesses will not conflict with any such rights of others, except to the extent such conflict would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (y) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have received any notice of any claim of infringement of or conflict with any such rights of others, which has not been resolved or which would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property.
intellectual property rights
(xx) (i) The Company and its subsidiaries (x) are, and at all prior times were, in compliance with any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations and orders relating to the protection of human health or safety, the environment, natural resources, hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, ""), (y) have received and
Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
 
are in compliance with all permits, licenses, certificates or other authorizations or approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (z) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability under or relating to any Environmental Laws, including for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, and have no knowledge of any event or condition that would reasonably be expected to result in any such notice; (ii) there are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws of or relating to the Company or its subsidiaries, except in the case of each of (i) and (ii) above, as described in the General Disclosure Package and for any such failure to comply, or failure to receive required permits, licenses, certificates, authorizations or approvals, or cost or liability, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iii) except as described in the General Disclosure Package, (x) there are no proceedings that are pending, or that are known to the Company to be contemplated, against the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any Environmental Laws in which a governmental entity is also a party, other than such proceedings regarding which it is reasonably believed no monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more will be imposed, (y) the Company and its subsidiaries are not aware of any issues regarding compliance with Environmental Laws, or liabilities or other obligations under Environmental Laws or concerning hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, that would reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company and its subsidiaries and (z) none of the Company and its subsidiaries anticipates material capital expenditures relating to any Environmental Laws.
(xxi) The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations", "Description of Debt Securities" and "Description of the Notes", insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings and present the information required to be shown.
Accurate Disclosure.
(xxii) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
(xxiii) The Company, its subsidiaries and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over financial reporting, and an internal audit function (collectively, "") that comply with the Securities Laws and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Internal Controls are, or upon consummation of the offering of the Offered Securities will be, overseen by the Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Board
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
 
with Exchange Rules. Within the next 180 days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, the Securities Laws, which, if determined adversely, would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Internal Control Event
(xxiv) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and, to the best knowledge of the Company, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or contemplated by any governmental or regulatory authority or by others.
Litigation
(xxv) The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP; the schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements.
(xxvi) Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that is material and adverse, (ii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, short-term indebtedness, long-term indebtedness, net current assets or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.
No Material Adverse Change in Business.
(xxvii) The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Offered Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "").
Investment Company Act.
Investment Company Act
(xxviii) No "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined under Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act) has imposed (or has informed the Company that it is considering imposing) any condition (financial or otherwise) on the Company retaining any rating assigned to the Company or any securities of the Company or (ii) has indicated to the Company that it is considering any of the actions described in Section 7(c)(ii) hereof.
Ratings.
 
(xxix) .The Company and its subsidiaries have insurance covering their respective properties, operations, personnel and businesses, including business interruption insurance, which insurance is in amounts and insures against such losses and risks as the Company's management has determined are adequate to protect the Company and its subsidiaries and their respective businesses; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has (i) received notice from any insurer or agent of such insurer that material capital improvements or other material expenditures are required or necessary to be made in order to continue such insurance or (ii) any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage at substantially similar cost from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business.
Insurance
(xxx) . The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal income tax returns and all other material federal, state, local and foreign tax returns required to be filed prior to the date hereof and have paid all federal, state, local and foreign taxes shown as due on such tax return and required to be paid prior to the date hereof; and except as otherwise disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there is no tax deficiency that has been, or could reasonably be expected to be, asserted against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, except, in each such case, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
(xxxi) . (i) Each employee benefit plan, within the meaning of Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), for which the Company or any member of its "Controlled Group" (defined as any organization which is a member of a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) would have any liability (each, a "") has been maintained in compliance with its terms and the requirements of any applicable statutes, orders, rules and regulations, including but not limited to ERISA and the Code, except where the failure to so maintain such plans would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (ii) no prohibited transaction, within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, has occurred with respect to any Plan excluding transactions effected pursuant to a statutory or administrative exemption, except such transactions as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) for each Plan that is subject to the funding rules of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, no "accumulated funding deficiency" as defined in Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur, except where such deficiency would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (iv) no "reportable event" (within the meaning of Section 4043(c) of ERISA) has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan for which the 30-day notice requirement has not been waived, except for any reportable events as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (v) neither the Company nor any member of the Controlled Group has incurred, nor reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions to the Plan or premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, in the ordinary course and without default) in respect of a Plan (including a "", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), except for such liability as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with ERISA
ERISA
Code
Plan
multiemployer plan
 
(xxxii) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or other person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment.
No Unlawful Payments
(xxxiii) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
(xxxiv) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the sale of the Offered Securities hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
Compliance with OFAC
OFAC
3. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company (i) the aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters on Schedule A hereto at a purchase price of 98.438% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from October 24, 2011 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined) and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the 2041 Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto at a purchase price of 97.631% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from October 24, 2011 to the Closing Date.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities.
 
The Company will deliver the Offered Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, New York, New York at 10:00 A.M., New York time, on October 24, 2011, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Offered Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Offered Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the above office at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(2) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the date of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses.
(b) The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus and will not effect such amendment or supplementation to which the Representatives reasonably object within a reasonable period after receipt thereof; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) any amendment or supplementation of the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests.
(c) If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws.
 
Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
(d) As soon as practicable, but not later than the Availability Date (as defined below), the Company will make generally available to its security holders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement which will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158 under the Act. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, "" means the day after the end of the fourth fiscal quarter following the fiscal quarter that includes such Effective Time on which the Company is required to file its Form 10-Q for such fiscal quarter except that, if such fourth fiscal quarter is the last quarter of the Company's fiscal year, "Availability Date" means the day after the end of such fourth fiscal quarter on which the Company is required to file its Form 10-K.
Rule 158.
Availability Date
(e) The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement (four of which will be signed and will include all exhibits), each related Statutory Prospectus, and, so long as a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request. The Final Prospectus shall be so furnished on or prior to 3:00 P.M., New York time, on the business day following the execution and delivery of this Agreement. All other such documents shall be so furnished as soon as available. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses.
(f) The Company will use reasonable best efforts to arrange for the qualification of the Offered Securities for sale and the determination of their eligibility for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably designate and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution and the Registration Statement remains in effect, except that in no event shall the Company be required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction where it would not, but for the requirements of this paragraph (f), be required to be so qualified, or subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or to consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
(g) During the period of five years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("") or any successor system of the Commission or any successor U.S. federal agency, it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements.
EDGAR
 
(h) The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters relating to such qualification) and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment ratings agencies for the rating of the Offered Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company, including the chartering of airplanes and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors.
Payment of Expenses.
(i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure Package and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company does not intend to use any of the proceeds from the sale of the Offered Securities hereunder to repay any outstanding debt owed to any affiliate of any Underwriter.
Use of Proceeds
(j) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
Absence of Manipulation.
(k) The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
(l) In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to Offered Securities
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
(b) . The Company will prepare final term sheets relating to the Offered Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheets within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for the Offered Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Offered Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Offered Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of KPMG LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and in a form acceptable to the Representatives.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
(b) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or the Representatives shall be contemplated by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus.
(c) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business, or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the
No Material Adverse Change.
 
Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined under Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment or clearance services in the United States or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
(d) The Representatives shall have received opinions, dated the Closing Date, of (i) Dorsey & Whitney LLP, counsel for the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex 1 and (ii) Richard L. Mack, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex 2.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
(e) The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they may reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
(f) The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct as of the Closing Date; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the best of their knowledge and after reasonable investigation, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate.
 
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8. . (a)  The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters by the Company.
Indemnified Party
provided
however
(b) Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an "") against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses
Indemnification of the Company.
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of (i) the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting"; and (ii) the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of the Representatives: the third sentence of the ninth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification.
provided
provided further
(d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the
Contribution.
 
other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Offered Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
 
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities. If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company will, jointly and severally, reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect. In addition, if any Offered Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives c/o, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, NY1-050-12-01, New York, NY 10020, Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Market Transaction Management/Legal, Barclays Capital Inc., 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, Attention: Syndicate Registration and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, 1585 Broadway, 29th Floor, New York, NY 10036, Attention: Investment Banking Division or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at The Mosaic Company c/o The Mosaic Company, 3033 Campus Drive, Suite E490, Plymouth, MN 55441 Attention: Richard L. Mack, Esq., Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; , , that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
provided
however
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
(a) The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of the Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship.
 
(b) The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms'-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations.
(c) The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives do not have any obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose.
(d) The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims they may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and agree that the Representatives shall not have any liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver.
16.
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
17. Except as provided in Sections 5(e), 5(h), 8 and 10 hereof, the Company and the Underwriters shall pay all of its own costs and expenses, including the fees of its counsel.
Expenses.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is
hereby confirmed and accepted as of the
date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
1. Pricing term sheets dated October 17, 2011 relating to the Offered Securities attached hereto as Exhibits B-1 and B-2.
2. Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
1. Preliminary Prospectus dated October 17, 2011.
 
Exhibit B-1
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration Statement No. 333-177251
Pricing Term Sheet
October 17, 2011
Relating to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement
dated October 17, 2011
 
 
 
The Issuer has filed a Registration Statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more complete information about the Issuer and this Offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322, Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC at 1-866-718-1649.
 
Exhibit B-2
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration Statement No. 333-177251
Pricing Term Sheet
October 17, 2011
Relating to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement
dated October 17, 2011
 
 
 
The Issuer has filed a Registration Statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more complete information about the Issuer and this Offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322, Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC at 1-866-718-1649.
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
INDENTURE, dated as of October 24, 2011 between THE MOSAIC COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the ""), having its principal office at 3033 Campus Drive, Suite E490, Plymouth, MN 55441, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as Trustee (herein called the "").
Corporation
Trustee
The Corporation has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes and other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter referred to as the ""), to be issued in one or more series as provided in this Indenture.
Securities
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Corporation, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders (as defined below) thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 101. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Definitions.
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States at the date of such computation;
(3) the words "herein", "hereinafter", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
Certain terms, used principally in Article Three, are defined in that Article.
"", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 105.
Act
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control", when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means, with respect to any Sale/Leaseback Transaction as of any particular time, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease) of the obligations of the lessee under such lease for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended). "Net rental payments" under any lease for any period means the sum of the rental and other payments required to be paid in such period by the lessee thereunder, not including, however, any amounts required to be paid by such lessee (whether or not designated as rental or additional rental) on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments or similar charges.
Attributable Debt
"" means any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities.
Authenticating Agent
"" means the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.  101 et. seq., as amended, and any other law of the United States or any state thereof relating to bankruptcy, creditors' rights, insolvency, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means either the board of directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee thereof.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the applicable date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" means Clearstream Banking, S.A., or its successor.
Clearstream
"" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
Common Depositary
"" as of any date of determination, means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities (excluding any current liabilities which are by their terms extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed), (ii) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles and (iii) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding stock of the Corporation's Subsidiaries, all as set forth on the most recently available balance sheet as of the last day of a fiscal quarter of the Corporation and its consolidated Subsidiaries computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" has the meaning specified in Section 312(d).
Conversion Date
"" means the cessation of use of a Foreign Currency both by the government of the country which issued such Currency and by a central bank or other public institution of or within the international banking community for the settlement of transactions.
Conversion Event
"" means the office of an affiliate of the Trustee in The City of St. Paul, Minnesota at which at any particular time its corporate trust business may be administered, which office on the date of execution of this Indenture is located at U.S. Bank National Association, 60 Livingston Avenue, EP-MN-WS3C, St. Paul, Minnesota 55107-2292.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means the Person named as the "Corporation" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Corporation" shall mean such successor Person.
Corporation
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, and delivered to the Trustee.
Corporation Request
Corporation Order
"" includes corporations, associations, companies and business trusts.
corporation
"" means any currency or currencies or composite currency issued by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized confederation or association of such governments.
Currency
"" means (without duplication), with respect to any Person, whether recourse is to all or a portion of the assets of such Person and whether or not contingent, (i) every obligation of such Person for money borrowed, (ii) every obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, including obligations Incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses, (iii) every reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such Person, (iv) every obligation of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services, (v) every capital lease obligation
Debt
 
of such Person determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and (vi) every obligation of the type referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (v) of another Person and all dividends of another Person the payment of which, in either case, such Person has guaranteed or secured or is responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise. Notwithstanding any terms of this definition to the contrary, "Debt" shall not include any trade accounts payable or accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business.
"" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
Defaulted Interest
"" or "" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
"" has the meaning specified to Section 312(g).
Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit
"" has the meaning specified in Section 312(f).
Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency
"" has the meaning specified in Section 312(h).
Election Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
Event of Default
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
Exchange Date
"" means, with respect to Securities of or within any series, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, a New York clearing house bank, designated pursuant to Section 301 or 312.
Exchange Rate Agent
"" means a tested telex or a certificate setting forth (i) the applicable Market Exchange Rate and (ii) the Dollar or Foreign Currency amounts of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any (on an aggregate basis and on the basis of a Security having the lowest denomination principal amount determined in accordance with Section 302 in the relevant Currency), payable with respect to a Security of any series on the basis of such Market Exchange Rate, sent (in the case of a telex) or signed (in the case of a certificate) by a Vice President or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation.
Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate
"" means any Currency other than the Dollar.
Foreign Currency
 
"" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, securities which are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of such government payable in such Currency and are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depositary receipt; that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest or principal of the Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
Government Obligations
provided
"" means the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
"" means, with respect to any Debt or other obligation of any Person, to create, issue, incur (by conversion, exchange or otherwise), assume, secure, guarantee or otherwise become liable in respect of such Debt or other obligation or the recording, as required pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or otherwise, of any Debt or other obligation on the balance sheet of such Person (and "Incurrence" and "Incurred" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing); , that a change in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that results in an obligation of such Person that exists at such time becoming Debt shall not be deemed an Incurrence of such Debt.
Incur
provided, however
"" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party.
Indenture
provided, however
"" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal face amount thereof at original issuance.
Indexed Security
"" when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security, shall be deemed to mean interest payable after Maturity at the rate prescribed in such Original Issue Discount Security.
interest
 
"" when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
"" means, with respect to any property or assets, any mortgage, pledge, security interest or lien on such property or assets.
Lien
"" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, (i) for any conversion involving a currency unit on the one hand and Dollars or any Foreign Currency on the other, the exchange rate between the relevant currency unit and Dollars or such Foreign Currency calculated by the method specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of the relevant series, (ii) for any conversion of Dollars into any Foreign Currency, the noon (New York City time) buying rate for such Foreign Currency for cable transfers quoted in New York City as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (iii) for any conversion of one Foreign Currency into Dollars or another Foreign Currency, the spot rate at noon local time in the relevant market at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Dollars or Foreign Currency into which conversion is being made could be purchased with the Foreign Currency from which conversion is being made from major banks located in either New York City, London or any other principal market for Dollars or such purchased Foreign Currency, in each case determined by the Exchange Rate Agent. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, in the event of the unavailability of any of the exchange rates provided for in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), the Exchange Rate Agent shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in New York City, London or another principal market for the Currency in question, or such other quotations as the Exchange Rate Agent shall deem appropriate. Unless otherwise specified by the Exchange Rate Agent, if there is more than one market for dealing in any Currency by reason of foreign exchange regulations or otherwise, the market to be used in respect of such Currency shall be that upon which a non-resident issuer of securities designated in such Currency would purchase such Currency in order to make payments in respect of such securities.
Market Exchange Rate
"" when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, notice of redemption, notice of option to elect repayment or otherwise.
Maturity
"" means a certificate, which shall comply with this Indenture, signed by any two of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Corporation, including an employee of the Corporation, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
Original Issue Discount Security
"" when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, :
Outstanding
except
(i) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) Securities, or portions thereof, for which money in the necessary amount relating to payment, redemption or repayment at the option of the Holders has been deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Corporation) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Corporation (if the Corporation shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
provided
(iii) Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1402 and 1403, with respect to which the Corporation has effected defeasance and/or covenant defeasance as provided in Article Fourteen; and
(iv) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Corporation;
, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the amount of principal thereof that would be (or shall have been declared to be) due and payable, at the time of such determination, upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of any Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date such Security is originally issued by the Corporation as set forth in an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent as of such date of original issuance of the amount determined as provided in clause (i) above), of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal face amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) Securities owned by any Affiliate of the Corporation or any obligor upon the Securities shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except
provided, however
 
that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making such calculation or in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Corporation or such other obligor.
"" means any Person (including the Corporation acting as Paying Agent) authorized by the Corporation to pay the principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Corporation.
Paying Agent
"" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means, when used with respect to the Securities of or within any series, the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002.
Place of Payment
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
"" means any manufacturing plant or warehouse owned or leased by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, whether owned or leased as of the date of this Indenture or thereafter, the gross book value of which exceeds 3% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, other than manufacturing plants and warehouses which the Board of Directors by resolution declares are not material to the total business conducted by the Corporation and the Subsidiaries as an entirety and which, when taken together with all other manufacturing plants and warehouses as to which such declaration has been so made, is so declared by the Board of Directors to be not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Corporation and the Subsidiaries as an entirety.
Principal Property
"", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of or within any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
Regular Record Date
"" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to this Indenture.
Repayment Date
 
"" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture.
Repayment Price
"" when used with respect to the Trustee, means the chairman or any vice-chairman of the board of directors, the chairman or any vice-chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors, the chairman of the trust committee, the president, any vice president, the secretary, any assistant secretary, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, the cashier, any assistant cashier, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, the controller or any assistant controller or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above-designated officers, and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
"" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, for a period of more than 36 months, of any Principal Property, which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Corporation or such Subsidiary to such Person in contemplation of such leasing.
Sale/Leaseback Transaction
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to this Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
Securities
provided, however,
"" and "" have the respective meanings specified is Section 305.
Security Register
Security Registrar
"" of a Person means a Subsidiary of such Person that constitutes a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the Exchange Act.
Significant Subsidiary
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of or within any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
Special Record Date
"" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable, as such date may be extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 308.
Stated Maturity
"" of a Person means (i) any corporation, association, or other business entity (other than a partnership) more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or a combination thereof and (ii) any partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or similar entity more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall be at the time so owned. For the purposes of this definition, "securities having ordinary voting power" means securities or other equity interests that ordinarily have voting power for the election of directors, or persons having management power with respect to the Person, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of securities has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
 
"" or "" means the United States Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, in force on the date hereof, except as provided in Section 905.
Trust Indenture Act
TIA
"" means the Persons named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a trustee hereunder; , that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean only the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
provided, however
"" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United States
"" has the meaning specified in Section 312(c).
Valuation Date
"" when used with respect to the Corporation or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Vice President
"" means the yield to maturity, computed at the time of issuance of a Security (or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such Security) and as set forth in such Security in accordance with generally accepted United States bond yield computation principles.
Yield to Maturity
SECTION 102.
Other Definitions.
 
 
SECTION 103. Upon any application or request by the Corporation to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Corporation shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (other than pursuant to Section 1004) shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read and understood such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
 
SECTION 104. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Corporation may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Corporation stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Corporation, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two of more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 105. (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Corporation. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments or so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Corporation, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1506.
Acts of Holders.
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgements of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
(c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d) If the Corporation shall solicit from the Holders of Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Corporation may, at its option, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Corporation shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding Section 316(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, such record date shall be the record date specified by the Corporation, which shall be a date not earlier than the date 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and not later than the date such solicitation is completed. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than eleven months after the record date.
provided
(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Corporation in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
SECTION 106. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other documents provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
Notices, Etc. to Trustee and Corporation.
(a) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Corporation shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if in writing and delivered, mailed (first-class postage prepaid) or sent by facsimile to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, U.S. Bank National Association, 60 Livingston Avenue, EP-MN-WS3C, St. Paul, Minnesota 55107-2292, Attention: Corporate Trust Administrator, Facsimile No. (651)-495-8097, or
(b) the Corporation by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and delivered, mailed (first-class postage prepaid) or sent by facsimile to the Corporation addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Corporation, in any such case, Attention: Corporate Secretary, Facsimile No. (763) 559-2860 .
 
Any delivery made or facsimile sent on a day other than a Business Day, or after 3:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, shall be deemed to be received on the next following Business Day. Anything mailed shall not be deemed to have been given until it is actually received. The Corporation may from time to time notify the Trustee of a change in address or facsimile number which thereafter, until changed by like notice, shall be the address or facsimile number of the Corporation for all purposes of this Indenture.
SECTION 107. Where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Securities by the Corporation or the Trustee, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each such holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders of Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Securities. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice.
Notice to Holders; Waiver.
In case, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to Holders of Securities when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be sufficient giving of such notice for every purpose hereunder.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
SECTION 108. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
SECTION 109. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Corporation shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns.
SECTION 110. In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause.
SECTION 111. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Securities Registrar and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture.
 
SECTION 112. This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
SECTION 113. Each of the Corporation and the Trustee agrees to comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, to the extent applicable, in connection with this Indenture and any action to be taken hereunder. If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any mandatory requirement of the Trust Indenture Act, such mandatory requirement shall prevail, and all such mandatory requirements of the Trust Indenture Act are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
SECTION 114. The Corporation covenants and agrees that the following provisions shall apply to conversion of currency in the case of the Securities and this Indenture:
Conversion of Currency.
(a) (i) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in, or enforcing the judgment of, any court in any country, it becomes necessary to convert into any other currency (the "Judgment Currency") an amount due or contingently due under the Securities of any series and this Indenture (the "Required Currency"), then the conversion shall be made at the rate of exchange prevailing on the Business Day before the day on which the judgment is given or the order of enforcement is made, as the case may be (unless a court shall otherwise determine).
(ii) If there is a change in the rate of exchange prevailing between the Business Day before the day on which the judgment is given or an order of endorsement is made, as the case may be (or such other date as a court shall determine), and the date of receipt of the amount due, the Corporation shall pay such additional (or, as the case may be, such lesser) amount, if any, as may be necessary so that the amount paid in the judgment currency when converted at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of receipt will produce the amount in the Required Currency originally due.
(b) In the event of the winding-up of the Corporation at any time while any amount or damages owing under the Securities and this Indenture, or any judgment or order rendered in respect thereof, shall remain outstanding, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold the Holders of Securities and the Trustee harmless against any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (1) the date as of which the equivalent of the amount in the Required Currency (other than under this Subsection (b)) is calculated for the purposes of such winding-up and (2) the final date for the filing of proofs of claim in such winding-up. For the purpose of this Subsection (b) the final date for the filing of proofs of claim in the winding-up of the Corporation shall be the date fixed by the liquidator or otherwise in accordance with the relevant provisions of applicable law as being the latest practicable date as at which liabilities of the Corporation may be ascertained for such winding-up prior to payment by the liquidator or otherwise in respect thereto.
 
(c) The obligations contained in Subsections (a)(ii) and (b) of this Section shall constitute separate and independent obligations of the Corporation from its other obligations under the Securities and this Indenture, shall give rise to separate and independent causes of action against the Corporation, shall apply irrespective of any waiver or extension granted by any Holder or Trustee from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order or the filing of any proof of claim in the winding-up of the Corporation for a liquidated sum in respect of amounts due hereunder (other than under Subsection (b) above) or under any such judgment or order. Any such deficiency as aforesaid shall be deemed to constitute a loss suffered by the Holders or the Trustee, as the case may be, and no proof or evidence of any actual loss shall be required by the Corporation or its liquidator. In the case of Subsection (b) above, the amount of such deficiency shall not be deemed to be reduced by any variation in rates of exchange occurring between the said final date and the date of any liquidating distribution.
(d) The term "" shall mean the rate of exchange quoted by such bank as may be designated in writing by the Corporation to the Trustee from time to time, at its central foreign exchange desk in its main office at 12:00 noon local time on the relevant date for purchases of the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency and includes any premiums and costs of exchange payable.
rate(s) of exchange
SECTION 115. Except as otherwise provided in this Indenture, for purposes of the construction of the terms of this Indenture or of the Securities, in the event that any amount is stated herein in the currency of one nation (the "First Currency"), as of any date such amount shall also be deemed to represent the amount in the currency of any other relevant nation (the "Other Currency") which is required to purchase such amount in the First Currency at the rate of exchange quoted by such bank as may be designated in writing by the Corporation to the Trustee from time to time, at its central foreign exchange desk in its main office in at 12:00 noon local time on the date of determination.
Currency Equivalent.
SECTION 116. A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of the Corporation shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Corporation under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. Such waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others.
SECTION 117. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals.
SECTION 118. In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date or Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of any Security other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but
Legal Holidays.
 
may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date or sinking fund payment date, or at the Stated Maturity or Maturity; that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be.
provided
SECTION 119. The Corporation in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs and "Common Code" numbers (in each case if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs and "Common Code" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Corporation shall advise the Trustee in writing of any change in any "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs or "Common Code" numbers applicable to the Securities.
CUSIP Numbers, ISINs, etc.
provided, however
SECTION 201. The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the forms as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the forms of Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Corporation Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
Forms Generally.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel-engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers of the Corporation executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
A Form of Security is attached as Exhibit A hereto, but a Security may be in any other form approved by the Board of Directors in or pursuant to any Board Resolution pursuant to Section 301.
 
SECTION 202. Subject to Section 611, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 203. If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified or contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (8) of Section 301, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be increased or decreased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Corporation Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Corporation Order.
Securities Issuable in Global Form.
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Corporation and the Corporation delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with an Officers' Certificate (which need not comply with Section 103 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the Officers' Certificate contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 307, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 309 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation and the Trustee shall treat as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security, the Holder of such permanent global Security in registered form.
 
SECTION 301. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series and, except as otherwise provided herein, each such series shall be unsecured and shall rank with each other and with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness for borrowed money of the Corporation.
pari passu
There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions and, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which (except for the matters set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (17) below), if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Corporation with respect to unissued Securities of such series and set forth in such Securities of such series when issued from time to time):
(1) the specific designation of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other series of Securities);
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906, 1107 or 1305);
(3) the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
(4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(5) the place or places, if any, other than the Corporate Trust Office, where the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, any Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange and, if different than the location specified in Section 106, the place or places where notices or demands to or upon the Corporation in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
 
(6) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, if the Corporation is to have that option;
(7) the obligation, if any, of the Corporation to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(8) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which any Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(9) if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent;
(10) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
(11) if other than Dollars, the Currency in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be payable or in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and the particular provisions applicable thereto in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
(12) whether the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more Currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(13) whether the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Corporation or a Holder thereof, in a Currency other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable, the period or periods within which (including the Election Date), and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable and the Currency in which such Securities are to be so payable, in each case in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
 
(14) the designation of the initial Exchange Rate Agent, if any;
(15) any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of the provisions of Article Fourteen that shall be applicable to the Securities of the series;
(16) any provisions granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified;
(17) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Corporation with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein;
(18) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305, and if Securities of the series are to be issuable in global form, the identity of any initial depositary therefor;
(19) the date as of which any temporary global Security representing Outstanding Securities of the series shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
(20) the Person to whom any interest on any Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304;
(21) if Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
(22) if the Securities of the series are to be issued upon the exercise of warrants, the time, manner and place for such Securities to be authenticated and delivered; and
 
(23) any other terms, conditions, rights and preferences (or limitations on such rights and preferences) relating to the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of Trust Indenture Act or the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution (subject to Section 303) and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. Not all Securities of any one series need be issued at the same time, and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened for issuances of additional Securities of such series.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions, such Board Resolutions shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
SECTION 302. All Securities shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. With respect to Securities of any series denominated in Dollars, in the absence of any such provisions, the Securities of such series, other than Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Denominations.
SECTION 303. The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Corporation by any two of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President, the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such authorized officer and may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Corporation shall bind the Corporation, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Corporation may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Corporation to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Corporation Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Corporation Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time and if the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Corporation Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining terms of particular Securities of such series such as interest rate, maturity date, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
 
In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
(a) that the form or forms of such Securities have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(b) that the terms of such Securities have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(c) that such Securities when completed by appropriate insertions and executed and delivered by the Corporation to the Trustee for authentication in accordance with this Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with this Indenture and issued by the Corporation in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Corporation, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights, to general equitable principles and to such other qualifications as such counsel shall conclude do not materially affect the rights of Holders of such Securities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding two paragraphs, if not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Corporation Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs prior to or at the time of issuance of each Security, but such documents shall be delivered prior to or at the time of issuance of the first Security of such series.
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate and deliver any such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Each Security shall be dated as of the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer thereof, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Corporation, and the Corporation shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310 together with an Officers' Certificate (which need not comply with Section 103 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Corporation, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
SECTION 304. Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Corporation may execute, and upon Corporation Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities. In the case of Securities of any series, such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Temporary Securities.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Corporation will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series, upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Corporation in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to the office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities, in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security, executed by the Corporation. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Corporation's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in registered form or permanent global registered form, or any combination thereof, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, and, if any combination thereof is so specified, as requested by the beneficial owner thereof.
 
Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder.
SECTION 305. The Corporation shall cause to be kept at the corporate trust office of the Trustee a register for each series of Securities (the registers maintained in the corporate trust office of the Trustee and in any other office or agency of the Corporation in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Corporation shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times, the Security Register shall be open to inspection by the Trustee. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed as security registrar (the "Security Registrar") for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If any beneficial owner of an interest in the permanent global Security of any series is entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301 and provided that any applicable notice provided in the permanent global Security shall have been given, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interest may be so exchanged, the Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security, executed by the Corporation. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Corporation Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Corporation's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged; , that no such exchanges may occur during a
provided, however
 
period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption with respect to any Securities and ending on the relevant Redemption Date if the Security for which exchange is requested may be among those selected for redemption. If a Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Corporation, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Corporation or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 306, 1107 or 1305 not involving any transfer.
The Corporation shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of notice of redemption of Securities of that series under Section 1103 or 1203 and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (iii) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid.
SECTION 306. If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a replacement Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, or, in case any such mutilated Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Corporation in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
 
If there shall be delivered to the Corporation and to the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Corporation or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Corporation shall execute and upon Corporation Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a replacement Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, or, in case any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Corporation in its discretion may, instead of issuing a replacement Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any replacement Security under this Section, the Corporation may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees, and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every replacement Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute a contractual obligation of the Corporation, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
SECTION 307. (a) Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person, in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; , that each installment of interest on any Security may, at the Corporation's option, be paid by (i) mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 309, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or (ii) wire transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved; Optional Interest Reset.
provided, however
 
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest on such defaulted interest (to the extent lawful) at the rate specified in the Securities of such series (such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest thereon herein collectively called "Defaulted Interest") may be paid by the Corporation, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Corporation may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Corporation shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Corporation shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 3l2(e)) equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Corporation of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Corporation, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given in the manner provided in Section 107, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose name the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
(2) The Corporation may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Corporation to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
(b) The provisions of this Section 307(b) may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) on any Security of such series may be reset by the Corporation on the date or dates specified on the face of such Security (each an ""). The Corporation may exercise such option with respect to such Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to an Optional Reset Date for such Security. Not later than 40 days prior to each Optional Reset Date, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 107, to the Holder of any such Security a notice (the "Reset Notice") indicating whether the Corporation has elected to reset the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable), and if so (i) such new interest rate (or such new spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) and (ii) the provisions, if any, for redemption during the period from such Optional Reset Date to the next Optional Reset Date or if there is no such next Optional Reset Date, to the Stated Maturity Date of such Security (each such period a ""), including the date or dates on which or the period or periods during which and the price or prices at which such redemption may occur during the Subsequent Interest Period.
Optional Reset Date
Subsequent Interest Period
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days prior to the Optional Reset Date, the Corporation may, at its option, revoke the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice and establish an interest rate (or a spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) that is higher than the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice, for the Subsequent Interest Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 107, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) is reset on an Optional Reset Date, and with respect to which the Holders of such Securities have not tendered such Securities for repayment (or have validly revoked any such tender) pursuant to the next succeeding paragraph, will bear such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable).
The Holder of any such Security will have the option to elect repayment by the Corporation of the principal of such Security on each Optional Reset Date at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus interest accrued and unpaid to, but not including, such Optional Reset Date. In order to obtain repayment on an Optional Reset Date, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to such Optional Reset Date and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to the Reset Notice, the Holder may, by written notice to the Trustee, revoke such tender or repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before such Optional Reset Date.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
 
SECTION 308. The provisions of this Section 308 may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The Stated Maturity of any Security of such series may be extended at the option of the Corporation for the period or periods specified on the face of such Security (each an "") up to but not beyond the date (the "") set forth on the face of such Security. The Corporation may exercise such option with respect to any Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the Stated Maturity of such Security in effect prior to the exercise of such option (the ""). If the Corporation exercises such option, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 107, to the Holder of such Security not later than 40 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity a notice (the "") indicating (i) the election of the Corporation to extend the Stated Maturity, (ii) the new Stated Maturity, (iii) the interest rate applicable to the Extension Period and (iv) the provisions, if any, for redemption during such Extension Period. Upon the Trustee's transmittal of the Extension Notice, the Stated Maturity of such Security shall be extended automatically and, except as modified by the Extension Notice and as described in the next paragraph, such Security will have the same terms as prior to the transmittal of such Extension Notice.
Optional Extension of Stated Maturity.
Extension Period
Final Maturity
Original Stated Maturity
Extension Notice
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days before the Original Stated Maturity of such Security, the Corporation may, at its option, revoke the interest rate provided for in the Extension Notice and establish a higher interest rate for the Extension Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 107, notice of such higher interest rate to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the Stated Maturity is extended will bear such higher interest rate.
If the Corporation extends the Maturity of any Security, the Holder will have the option to elect repayment of such Security by the Corporation on the Original Stated Maturity at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus interest accrued and unpaid to, but not including, such date. In order to obtain repayment on the Original Stated Maturity once the Corporation has extended the Maturity thereof, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders, except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to an Extension Notice, the Holder may by written notice to the Trustee revoke such tender for repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before the Original Stated Maturity.
SECTION 309. Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and none of the Corporation, the Trustee or any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners.
None of the Corporation, the Trustee, Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Corporation, the Trustee, or any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any depositary, as a Holder, with respect to such global Security or impair, as between such depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of such depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such global Security.
SECTION 310. All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, repayment at the option of the Holder, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any current or future sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities so delivered to the Trustee shall be promptly canceled by it. The Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Corporation may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Corporation has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and certification of their disposal delivered to the Corporation unless by Corporation Order the Corporation shall direct that canceled Securities be returned to it.
Cancellation.
SECTION 311. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any Securities, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest.
SECTION 312. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, with respect to Securities of any series not permitting the election provided for in subsection (b) below or the Holders of which have not made the election provided for in subsection (b) below, except as provided in subsection (d) below, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on any Security of such series will be made in the Currency in which such Security is payable. The provisions of this Section 312 may be modified or superseded with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301.
Currency and Manner of Payments In Respect of Securities. (a) 
(b) It may be provided pursuant to Section 301 with respect to Securities of any series that Holders shall have the option, subject to subsection (d) and (e) below, to receive payments of principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest, if any, on such Securities in any of the Currencies which may be designated for such election by delivering to the Trustee a written election with signature guarantees and in the applicable form established pursuant to Section 301, not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the applicable payment date. If a Holder so elects to receive such payments in any such Currency, such election will remain in effect for such Holder or any transferee of such Holder until changed by such Holder or such transferee by written notice to the Trustee (but any such change must be made not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the next
 
payment date to be effective for the payment to be made on such payment date and no such change of election may be made with respect to payments to be made on any Security of such series with respect to which an Event of Default has occurred or with respect to which the Corporation has deposited funds pursuant to Article Four or with respect to which a notice of redemption has been given by the Corporation or a notice of option to elect repayment has been sent by such Holder or such transferee). Any Holder of any such Security who shall not have delivered any such election to the Trustee not later than the close of business on the applicable Election Date will be paid the amount due on the applicable payment date in the relevant Currency as provided in Section 312(a). The Trustee shall notify the Exchange Rate Agent as soon as practicable after the Election Date of the aggregate principal amount of Securities for which Holders have made such written election.
(c) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the election referred to in subsection (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, not later than the fourth Business Day after the Election Date for each payment date for Securities of any series, the Exchange Rate Agent will deliver to the Corporation a written notice specifying, in the Currency in which Securities of such series are payable, the respective aggregate amounts of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on the Securities to be paid on such payment date, specifying the amounts in such Currency so payable in respect of the Securities as to which the Holders of Securities of such series shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in subsection (b) above. If the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301 and if at least one Holder has made such election, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, on the second Business Day preceding such payment date the Corporation will deliver to the Trustee for such series of Securities an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate in respect of the Dollar or Foreign Currency payments to be made on such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 the Dollar or Foreign Currency amount receivable by Holders of Securities who have elected payment in a Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above shall be determined by the Corporation on the basis of the applicable Market Exchange Rate in effect on the third Business Day (the "Valuation Date") immediately preceding each payment date, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) If a Conversion Event occurs with respect to a Foreign Currency in which any of the Securities are denominated or payable other than pursuant to an election provided for pursuant to subsection (b) above, then, with respect to each date for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on the applicable Securities denominated or payable in such Foreign Currency occurring after the last date on which such Foreign Currency was used (the "Conversion Date"), the Dollar shall be the Currency of payment for use on each such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar amount to be paid by the Corporation to the Trustee and by the Trustee or any Paying Agent to the Holders of such Securities with respect to such payment date shall be, in the case of a Foreign Currency other than a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency or, in the case of a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, in each case as determined by the Exchange Rate Agent in the manner provided in subsection (f) or (g) below.
 
(e) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the Holder of a Security denominated in any Currency shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in subsection (b) above, and a Conversion Event occurs with respect to such elected Currency, such Holder shall receive payment in the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election; and if a Conversion Event occurs with respect to the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election, such Holder shall receive payment in Dollars as provided in subsection (d) above.
(f) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and shall be obtained for each subsequent payment date by converting the specified Foreign Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate on the Conversion Date.
(g) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and, subject to the provisions of subsection (h) below, shall be the sum of each amount obtained by converting the Specified Amount of each Component Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate for such Component Currency on the Valuation Date with respect to each payment.
(h) For purposes of this Section 312 the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A "" shall mean any Currency which, on the Conversion Date, was a component currency of the relevant currency unit.
Component Currency
A "" of a Component Currency shall mean the number of units of such Component Currency or fractions thereof which were represented in the relevant currency unit on the Conversion Date. If after the Conversion Date the official unit of any Component Currency is altered by way of combination or subdivision, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be divided or multiplied in the same proportion. If after the Conversion Date two or more Component Currencies are consolidated into a single currency, the respective Specified Amounts of such Component Currencies shall be replaced by an amount in such single Currency equal to the sum of the respective Specified Amounts of such consolidated Component Currencies expressed in such single Currency, and such amount shall thereafter be a Specified Amount and such single Currency shall thereafter be a Component Currency. If after the Conversion Date any Component Currency shall be divided into two or more currencies, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be replaced by amounts of such two or more currencies, having an aggregate Dollar Equivalent value at the Market Exchange Rate on the date of such replacement equal to the Dollar Equivalent value of the Specified Amount of such former Component Currency at the Market Exchange Rate immediately before such division and such amounts shall thereafter be Specified Amounts and such currencies shall thereafter be Component Currencies. If, after the Conversion Date of the relevant currency unit, a Conversion Event (other than any event referred to above in this definition of "") occurs with respect to any Component Currency of such currency unit and is continuing on the applicable Valuation Date, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall, for purposes of calculating the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, be converted into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate in effect on the Conversion Date of such Component Currency.
Specified Amount
Specified Amount
 
"" shall mean the date for any series of Securities as specified pursuant to clause (13) of Section 301 by which the written election referred to in Subsection (b) above may be made.
Election Date
All decisions and determinations of the Exchange Rate Agent regarding the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, the Market Exchange Rate and changes in the Specified Amounts as specified above shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Corporation, the Trustee and all Holders of such Securities denominated or payable in the relevant Currency. The Exchange Rate Agent shall promptly give written notice to the Corporation and the Trustee of any such decision or determination.
In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to a Foreign Currency, the Corporation will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 107 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date. In the event the Corporation so determines that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to any currency unit in which Securities are denominated or payable, the Corporation will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 107 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date and the Specified Amount of each Component Currency on the Conversion Date. In the event the Corporation determines in good faith that any subsequent change in any Component Currency as set forth in the definition of Specified Amount above has occurred, the Corporation will similarly give written notice to the Trustee and the Exchange Rate Agent.
The Trustee shall be fully justified and protected in relying and acting upon information received by it from the Corporation and the Exchange Rate Agent and shall not otherwise have any duty or obligation to determine the accuracy or validity of such information independent of the Corporation or the Exchange Rate Agent.
SECTION 313. (a) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this Indenture, then the Corporation will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Corporation will cause the Exchange Rate Agent to make the necessary foreign exchange determinations at the time and in the manner specified pursuant to Section 301 for the purpose of determining the applicable rate of exchange.
Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent.
(b) No resignation of the Exchange Rate Agent and no appointment of a successor Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to this Section shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Exchange Rate Agent as evidenced by a written instrument delivered to the Corporation and the Trustee.
 
(c) If the Exchange Rate Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Exchange Rate Agent for any cause with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Corporation, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Exchange Rate Agent or Exchange Rate Agents with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Exchange Rate Agent may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, at any time there shall only be one Exchange Rate Agent with respect to the Securities of any particular series that are originally issued by the Corporation on the same date and that are initially denominated and/or payable in the same Currency).
SECTION 401. This Indenture shall upon Corporation Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series herein expressly provided for) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Corporation, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series when:
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
(a) either
(1) all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust with the Trustee or any Paying Agent or segregated and held in trust by the Corporation and thereafter repaid to the Corporation, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(2) all Securities of such series
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii) if redeemable at the option of the Corporation, are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Corporation,
and the Corporation, in the case of clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount, in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are
 
payable, sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(b) the Corporation has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Corporation; and
(c) the Corporation has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Corporation to the Trustee under Section 603, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 613 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (2) of Subsection (a) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
SECTION 402. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Corporation acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Application of Trust Money.
SECTION 501. "", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Events of Default.
Event of Default
(1) default in the payment of any interest on any Security of that series when such interest becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
 
(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of the Securities of that series and Article Twelve; or
(4) breach or default in the performance of any covenant or agreement of the Corporation in this Indenture which affects or is applicable to the Securities of that series (other than a default in the performance, or breach of a covenant or warranty which is specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Section), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Corporation by the Trustee or to the Corporation and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of such series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) acceleration of or any failure to pay at final maturity any Debt of the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation in an aggregate amount in excess of $100 million; or
(6) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or appointing a receiver, interim receiver, receiver and manager, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation or of any substantial part of the property of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(7) the commencement by the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable federal, provincial or state law or the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable federal, provincial or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, interim receiver, receiver and manager, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary of the Corporation or of any substantial part of the property of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary, of the Corporation, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or
 
(8) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
SECTION 502. If an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Outstanding Securities of that series and all interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Outstanding Securities of that series and all interest thereon shall ipso facto become and be due and payable immediately without any declaration on the part of the Trustee or the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing the Trustee shall, within 30 days after it becomes aware of the occurrence of such Event of Default, give notice of such Event of Default to the Holders of the Securities of all series then Outstanding affected thereby in the manner provided in Section 107, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, except in the case of Events of Default described in clauses (1) and (2) of Section 501, the Trustee shall not be required to give such notice if the Trustee in good faith shall have decided that the withholding of such notice is in the best interests of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby and shall have so advised the Corporation in writing. Where a notice of the occurrence of an Event of Default has been given to the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series pursuant to the preceding sentence and the Event of Default is thereafter cured, the Trustee shall give notice that the Event of Default is no longer continuing to the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series within 30 days after it becomes aware that the Event of Default has been cured.
provided
At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case maybe), by written notice to the Corporation and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
 
(1) the Corporation has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)):
(A) all overdue interest on all Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be),
(B) all unpaid principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, and interest on such unpaid principal (and premium, if any) at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
(C) interest on overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), other than the non-payment of amounts of principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, in the event of a declaration of acceleration in respect of the Securities because of an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) shall have occurred and be continuing, such declaration of acceleration shall be automatically annulled if the Debt that is the subject of such Event of Default has been discharged or the holders thereof have rescinded their declaration of acceleration in respect of such Debt, and written notice of such discharge or rescission, as the case may be, shall have been given to the Trustee by the Corporation and countersigned by the holders of such Debt or a trustee, fiduciary or agent for such holders, within 30 days after such declaration of acceleration in respect of the Securities, and no other Event of Default has occurred during such 30-day period which has not been cured or waived during such period.
 
SECTION 503.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by the Trustee.
The Corporation covenants that if
(1) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof.
then the Corporation will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, and interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Corporation fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Corporation or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Corporation or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series (or of all series, as the case may be) by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Corporation or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Corporation for the payment of overdue principal, premium, if any, or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
(i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any), or such portion of the principal amount of any series of Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities as may be specified in the terms of such series, and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee all amounts due to it hereunder including, without limitation, the costs, charges, expenses, advances and compensation to the Trustee in or about the execution of its trust, or otherwise in relation hereto, with interest thereon as herein provided.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
SECTION 505. Any rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
SECTION 506. Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Application of Money Collected.
To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee including, without limitations, the costs, charges, expenses, advances and compensation to the Trustee in or about the execution of its trust, or otherwise in relation hereto, with interest thereon as herein provided;
FIRST,
To the payment of all amounts due the Holders of the Securities in respect of the costs, charges, expenses, advances incurred in connection with enforcing their rights hereunder;
SECOND,
To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, respectively; and
THIRD,
 
The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto.
FOURTH,
SECTION 507. No Holder of any Outstanding Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
Limitation on Suits.
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such Event of Default (determined as provided in Section 502 and as one class), shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be Incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority or more in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such Event of Default (determined as provided in Section 502 and as one class);
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such affected series, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such affected series.
SECTION 508. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment, as provided herein (including, if applicable, Article Fourteen) and in such Security, of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and (subject to Section 307) interest on, such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
SECTION 509. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities shall be restored, severally and respectively, to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
SECTION 510. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
SECTION 511. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
SECTION 512. The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by an Event of Default (determined as provided in Section 502 and as one class) shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such affected series, that in each case
Control by Holders.
provided
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and
(3) the Trustee need not take any action which might involve it in personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such affected series not consenting.
 
SECTION 513. Subject to Section 502, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series with respect to which a Default shall have occurred and be continuing (as one class) may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Outstanding Securities of such affected series, waive any past Default and its consequences, except a Default
Waiver of Past Defaults.
(1) in respect of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on any Security, or
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such affected series.
Upon any such waiver, any such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 514. The Corporation covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Corporation (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
SECTION 515. All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to (i) any suit instituted by the Corporation, (ii) any suit instituted by the Trustee; (iii) any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, of the Securities of any series holding in the aggregate more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series, or, in the case of any suit relating to or arising under clause (4) or (8) of Section 501 (if the suit relates to the Securities of more than one but less than all series then Outstanding), 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding and affected thereby, or, in the case of any suit relating to or arising under clause (4) or (8) of Section 501 (if the suit relates to all the Securities then Outstanding) or clause (5), (6) or (7) of Section 501, 10% in aggregate principal amount of all Securities then Outstanding or (iv) any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or Stated Maturities expressed in such Security or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date.
Undertaking for Costs.
 
SECTION 601.
Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(1) The Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee.
(2) The Trustee, in exercising its powers and discharging its duties prescribed or conferred by this Indenture, shall
(a) act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Holders of Securities issued hereunder, and
(b) exercise the care, diligence and skill of a reasonably prudent trustee.
(3) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee, in the exercise of its rights and duties hereunder, may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to and comply with the requirements of this Indenture.
(4) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from the duties imposed on it in Sections 601(2) and (3) or from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(a) this Section shall not be construed to limit the effect of Sections 601(1), (2) and (3);
(b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with an appropriate direction of the Holders pursuant to Section 512 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture; and
 
(d) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise Incur any personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(5) Whether or not herein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
SECTION 602. Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
Certain Rights of Trustee.
(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, Officers' Certificate or other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any order, request or direction of the Corporation mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Corporation Request or Corporation Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate, including (i) as evidence of the truth of any statements of fact, and (ii) to the effect that any particular dealing or transaction or step or thing is, in the opinion of the Officers so certifying, expedient, as evidence that it is expedient; that the Trustee may in its sole discretion require from the Corporation or otherwise further evidence or information before acting or relying on such certificate;
provided
(d) the Trustee may employ or retain such agents, counsel and other assistants as it may reasonably require for the proper discharge of its duties hereunder and may pay reasonable remuneration for all services performed for it;
(e) the Trustee may, in relation to this Indenture, act on the opinion or advice of or on information obtained from any counsel, notary, valuer, surveyor, engineer, broker, auctioneer, accountant or other expert, whether retained by the Trustee or by the Corporation or otherwise;
(f) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
(g) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered and furnished to the Trustee funds for the purpose and reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be Incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(h) the Trustee shall not be required to take notice of any default under this Indenture, other than payment of any moneys required by any provision of this Indenture to be paid to it, unless and until notified in writing of such default, which notice shall clearly set out the default desired to be brought to the attention of the Trustee;
(i) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default which may have occurred, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document or any investigation of the books and records of the Corporation (but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Corporation, personally or by agent or attorney), unless requested to do so by the Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such affected series then Outstanding; , that the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be Incurred by it in the making of such investigation; and
provided, however
(j) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
SECTION 603. By way of supplement to the provisions of any law for the time being relating to trustees, it is expressly declared and agreed as follows:
Protection of Trustee.
(a) the recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Corporation, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be liable for or assume any responsibility for their correctness;
(b) the Trustee makes no representations as to, and shall not be liable for, the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities;
(c) neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Corporation of any of the Securities or of the proceeds thereof;
 
(d) nothing herein contained shall impose any obligation on the Trustee to see or to require evidence of registration or filing (or renewals thereof) of this Indenture or any instrument ancillary or supplemental hereto;
(e) the Trustee shall not be bound to give any notice of the execution hereof;
(f) the Trustee shall not Incur any liability or responsibility whatsoever or be in any way responsible for the consequence of any breach on the part of the Corporation of any of the covenants herein contained or of any act of the agents or servants of the Corporation; and
(g) the Corporation shall indemnify the Trustee (including its directors, officers and employees) for, and hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense Incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
SECTION 604. The Trustee shall not be required to give security for the execution of the trusts or its conduct or administration hereunder.
Trustee Not Required to Give Security.
SECTION 605. No person dealing with the Trustee shall be concerned to enquire whether the powers that the Trustee is purporting to exercise have become exercisable, or whether any money remains due upon the Securities or to see to the application of any money paid to the Trustee.
No Person Dealing with Trustee Need Enquire.
SECTION 606. The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Corporation, in its individual or in any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of the Securities and, subject to Section 608, may otherwise deal with the Corporation with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent, and without being liable to account for any profit made thereby.
May Hold Securities.
SECTION 607. Any money held by the Trustee, which under the trusts of this Indenture may be invested, shall be invested and reinvested by the Trustee, in accordance with a Corporation Order, in its name or under its control in any securities in which trustees are authorized to invest. Pending such investment, such money shall be placed by the Trustee on deposit at interest at the then current rate in a U.S. chartered bank or trust company.
Moneys Held in Trust.
SECTION 608.
Conflict of Interest.
(1) The Trustee represents to the Corporation that, at the time of the execution and delivery hereof, no material conflict of interest exists between the Trustee's role as a fiduciary hereunder and the Trustee's role in any other capacity and agrees that in the event of a material conflict of interest arising hereafter it will, within 90 days after becoming aware that a material conflict of interest exists, either eliminate the same or resign its trust hereunder.
 
(2) If, notwithstanding Section 608(1), the Trustee has a material conflict of interest, the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, of the security interest (if any) constituted by or under this Indenture and of the Securities of any series issued hereunder shall not be affected in any manner whatsoever by reason only of the existence of such material conflict of interest.
(3) If the Trustee contravenes Section 608(1), the Corporation or any Holder of Securities of any series affected thereby may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order that the Trustee be replaced, and such court may make an order on such terms as it thinks fit.
SECTION 609. For each series of Securities issued hereunder, there shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder which shall be (i) a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers and subject to supervision or examination by United States Federal or State authority, or (ii) a corporation or other Person organized and doing business under the laws of any other government which is permitted to act as Trustee pursuant to any rule, regulation or order of the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers and subject to supervision or examination by an authority of such government, or a political subdivision thereof, substantially equivalent to the supervision or examination applicable to an institution described in clause (i) above, in each case under clauses (i) and (ii) having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and an office, which may be an office of an affiliate of the Trustee, in The City of New York, that there shall be such a corporation or other Person in such location willing to act upon customary and reasonable terms. If such corporation or other Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section the combined capital and surplus of such corporation or other Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. Neither the Corporation nor any Affiliate of the Corporation shall serve as Trustee. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
provided
SECTION 610.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(1) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
(2) The Trustee may resign its trust and be discharged from all further duties and liabilities hereunder at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving to the Corporation three months' notice in writing or such shorter notice as the Corporation may accept as sufficient. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor
 
Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 90 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(3) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by the Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding delivered to the Trustee and to the Corporation.
(4) If any time:
(a) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608(1) with respect to the Securities of any series after written request therefor by the Corporation or by any Holder who has been a Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months; or
bona fide
(b) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Corporation or by any such Holder; or
(c) the Trustee shall be dissolved, shall become incapable of acting or shall become or be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case (i) the Corporation by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any or all series, as appropriate, or (ii) subject to Section 610, any Holder who has been a Holder of a Security of an affected series for at least six months may, on behalf of such Holder and all other Holders similarly situated, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
bona fide
(5) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Corporation, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of such series and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding delivered to the Corporation and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Corporation with respect to the Securities of such series. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the
 
Corporation or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of such Holder and all other Holders similarly situated, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for any order for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
bona fide
(6) The Corporation shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to the Holders thereof by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. If the Corporation shall fail to give such notice within 10 days after acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee, the successor Trustee shall cause such notice to be given at the expense of the Corporation. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 611.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(1) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series, each successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Corporation and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee with respect to such applicable series of the Securities shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to such applicable series; but, on the request of the Corporation or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its fees and expenses then unpaid, execute, acknowledge and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
(2) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but less than all) series, the Corporation, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute, acknowledge and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto in which each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which shall (i) contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of each series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (ii) if the retiring Trustee shall not be retiring with respect to the Securities of all series, contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of the series as to which the retiring Trustee shall not be retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (iii) add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to the extent necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that
 
nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture (except as specifically provided for therein) shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of each series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, and such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to each successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(3) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Corporation shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to subsection (1) or (2) of this Section, as the case may be.
(4) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
SECTION 612. Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or with which it may be consolidated or amalgamated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or amalgamation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, or any corporation or association to which all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee may be sold or otherwise transferred, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder without any further act, such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or instrument or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as though such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Merger, Consolidation, Amalgamation or Succession to Business.
provided
SECTION 613. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Corporation.
SECTION 614. The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of the Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of, and subject to the direction of, the Trustee to authenticate the Securities of such series, including Securities issued upon original issue, exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 306; and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and
Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
 
obligatory for all purposes as though authenticated by the Trustee. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of the Securities of any series by the Trustee or to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by such Authenticating Agent for such series and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by such Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Corporation and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated or amalgamated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion, consolidation or amalgamation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of any Authenticating Agent, shall be the successor to such Authenticating Agent with respect to all series of the Securities for which it served as Authenticating Agent, such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent.
provided
Any Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Corporation. The Trustee may at any time terminate the appointment of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Corporation. Upon receiving such notice of resignation or upon such termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Corporation and shall, at the expense of the Corporation, provide notice of such appointment to all Holders of the Securities affected thereby in the manner provided in Section 610 with respect to the appointment of a successor Trustee. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as though originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Corporation agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services hereunder.
 
SECTION 615. In the event that Securities are issued in book-entry form with a securities depositary:
Book-Entry Provisions.
(a) the Trustee may deal with such depositary as the authorized representative of the Holders;
(b) the rights of the Holders shall be exercised only through such depositary and shall be limited to those established by law and agreement between the Holders and such depositary and/or direct participants of such depositary;
(c) such depositary will make book-entry transfers among the direct participants of such depositary and will receive and transmit distributions of principal and interest on the Securities to such direct participants; and
(d) the direct participants of such depositary shall have no rights under this Indenture under or with respect to any of the Securities held on their behalf by such depositary, and such depositary may be treated by the Trustee and its agents, employees, officers and directors as the absolute owner of the Securities for all purposes whatsoever.
SECTION 616. The Corporation agrees:
Compensation and Reimbursement.
(a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); and
(b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances Incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith.
SECTION 701. . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities.
Holders' Lists
SECTION 702. A Holder may, upon payment to the Trustee of a reasonable fee, require the Trustee to furnish within 10 days after receiving the affidavit or statutory declaration referred to below, a list setting out (i) the name and address of every Holder of Securities, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Securities owned by each such
Access to List of Holders.
 
Holder, and (iii) the aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding, each as shown on the records of the Trustee on the day that the affidavit or statutory declaration is delivered to the Trustee. The affidavit or statutory declaration, as the case may be, shall contain (i) the name and address of the Holder, (ii) where the applicant is a corporation, its name and address for service, and (iii) a statement that the list will not be used except in connection with an effort to influence the voting of the Holders of Securities, an offer to acquire Securities, or any other matter relating to the Securities or the affairs of the Corporation. Where the Holder is a corporation, the affidavit or statutory declaration shall be made by a director or officer of the corporation.
SECTION 703. The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
Communications to Holders.
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Corporation and the Trustee that neither the Corporation nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to the names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 704. As promptly as practicable after each May 15 beginning with the first May 15 following the date of this Indenture, and in any event prior to June 30 in each year, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of Securities a brief report dated as of May 15 that complies with TIA  313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA  313(b). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Commission and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities are listed. The Corporation agrees to notify promptly the Trustee whenever the Securities become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Reports by Trustee to Holders.
SECTION 705. The Corporation shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is filed with the Commission.
Reports by the Corporation.
SECTION 801.
Corporation May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms.
(a) The Corporation shall not amalgamate or consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease or permit one or more of its Significant Subsidiaries to convey, transfer or lease, all or substantially all of the property and assets of the
 
Corporation and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to any Person (other than the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or a Person that will become a Subsidiary after the transaction), unless:
(i) either the Corporation is the continuing corporation or such corporation or Person assumes by supplemental indenture all of the obligations of the Corporation under this Indenture and the Securities;
(ii) immediately after the transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall exist;
(iii) the surviving corporation or such Person is a corporation, partnership or trust organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; and
(iv) the Corporation or such Person shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such amalgamation, consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
(b) In addition, no such amalgamation, consolidation, merger or transfer shall be made if, as a result thereof, any property or assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary would become subject to any Lien securing Debt, unless such Lien could be created pursuant to Section 1006 without equally and ratably securing the Securities or unless the Securities are secured equally and ratably with, or prior to, the Debt secured by such Lien.
SECTION 802. Upon any amalgamation or consolidation by the Corporation with or merger by the Corporation into any other corporation or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to any Person in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such amalgamation or consolidation or into which the Corporation is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Corporation under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Corporation herein, and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Corporation (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Corporation" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any successor Person which shall theretofore become such in the manner described in Section 801), except in the case of a lease, shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Successor Person Substituted.
SECTION 803. If, upon any amalgamation or consolidation of the Corporation with or merger of the Corporation into any other corporation, or upon any conveyance, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to any Person in accordance with Section 801, any of the properties and assets of the Corporation or one or more of its Significant Subsidiaries would thereupon become subject to any Lien, then unless
Securities to Be Secured in Certain Events.
 
such Lien could be created pursuant to Section 1006 without equally and ratably securing the Securities, the Corporation, prior to or simultaneously with such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, conveyance, lease or transfer, shall secure the Securities Outstanding hereunder (together with, if the Corporation shall so determine, any other indebtedness of the Corporation now existing or hereafter created which is not subordinate to the Securities) equally and ratably with (or prior to) the indebtedness which upon such amalgamation, consolidation, merger, conveyance, lease or transfer is to become secured by such Lien, or will cause such Securities to be so secured; that, for the purpose of providing such equal and ratable security, the principal amount of Original Issue Discount Securities and Indexed Securities shall mean that amount which would at the time of making such effective provision be due and payable pursuant to Section 502 and the terms of such Original Issue Discount Securities and Indexed Securities upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof, and the extent of such equal and ratable security shall be adjusted, to the extent permitted by law, as and when said amount changes over time pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Securities and Indexed Securities.
provided
SECTION 901. Without the consent of any Holders, the Corporation, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Corporation and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Corporation contained herein and in the Securities; or
(2) to add to the covenants of the Corporation for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Corporation; or
(3) to add any additional Events of Default (and if such Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
(4) to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect; or
provided
 
(5) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
provided
(6) to add guarantees to the Securities of any series and guarantors under the Indenture; or
(7) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 803 or 1006 or otherwise; or
(8) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
(9) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611; or
(10) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect; or
provided
(11) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Sections 1401, 1402 and 1403; that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect.
provided
SECTION 902. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such supplemental indenture (as one class), by Act of such Holders delivered to the Corporation and the Trustee, the Corporation, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture which affect such series of Securities or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such series of Securities under this Indenture; , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series,
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
provided, however
 
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of interest on, any Security of such series, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security of such series that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 504, or adversely affect any right of repayment at the option of any Holder of any Security of such series, or change any Place of Payment where, or the Currency in which, any Security of such series or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be), or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series required for any such supplemental indenture, for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture which affect such series or certain defaults applicable to such series hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of Section 1504 for quorum or voting with respect to Securities of such series, or
(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1008, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture which affect such series cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series.
Any such supplemental indenture adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture, or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series, shall not affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 903. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
SECTION 904. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
 
SECTION 905. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 906. Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Corporation shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Corporation, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Corporation and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
SECTION 907. Promptly after the execution by the Corporation and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 902, the Corporation shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 107, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture.
Notice of Supplemental Indentures.
SECTION 1001. The Corporation covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
Payment of Principal, Premium, if any, and Interest.
SECTION 1002. The Corporation will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Corporation in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Corporation will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Corporation shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
The Corporation may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation; , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Corporation of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Corporation will give prompt written notice
provided, however
 
to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, the Corporation hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Corporation in Plymouth, Minnesota, and initially appoints the Trustee at its corporate trust office as Paying Agent and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this Indenture, then the Corporation will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent.
The Corporation agrees that it will pay the Trustee reasonable remuneration for its services hereunder and will repay to the Trustee on demand all expenditures or advances whatever which the Trustee may reasonably make or Incur in and about the execution of the trusts hereby created, and such money shall be payable out of any funds coming into the possession of the Trustee in priority to any Securities. The said remuneration shall continue to be payable until the trusts hereof shall be finally wound up and whether or not the trusts hereof shall be in the course of administration by or under the direction of a court.
SECTION 1003. If the Corporation shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 3l2(e)) sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
Whenever the Corporation shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to or on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the Currency described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal (and premium, if any) or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Corporation will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Corporation will cause each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) for any series of Securities to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Corporation in the making of any payment of principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on the Securities of such series; and
(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Corporation may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Corporation Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Corporation or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Corporation or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums.
Except as provided in the Securities of any series, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Corporation, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on any Security of any series, and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Corporation on Corporation Request, or (if then held by the Corporation) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Corporation for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Corporation as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
SECTION 1004. The Corporation will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer as to his or her knowledge of the Corporation's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture. For purposes of this Section 1004, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice under this Indenture.
Statement as to Compliance.
 
SECTION 1005. Subject to Article Eight, the Corporation will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries; , that the Corporation shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Corporation shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Corporate Existence.
provided, however
SECTION 1006. The Corporation shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Corporation to, Incur any Debt if such Debt is secured by a Lien upon any Principal Property, without in any such case effectively providing that the Securities shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt; , that the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to: (a) Liens existing on the date the Securities are originally issued or Liens provided for under the terms of agreements existing on such date; (b) Liens on any property acquired or constructed by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation after the date of this Indenture that are created or assumed contemporaneously with or within 270 days after such acquisition or construction to secure or provide for the payment of all or part of the purchase price or cost of construction thereof (or to secure any Debt Incurred by the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation for the purpose of financing all or a part of the purchase price or cost of construction thereof or of improvements thereon); (c) existing Liens on property acquired (including Liens on any property acquired from a Person that is consolidated or amalgamated with or merged with or into the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation) or Liens outstanding at the time any Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Corporation that are not Incurred in connection with such entity becoming a Subsidiary of the Corporation; (d) Liens in favor of the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation; (e) Liens on any property in favor of domestic or foreign governmental bodies to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute; (f) Liens on any property to secure asset retirement, reclamation or similar obligations, or to secure penalties, assessments, clean-up costs or other governmental charges relating to environmental protection matters; (g) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in any foregoing clause (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) to the extent that the principal amount of Debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, together with the reasonable costs (including any premiums or make-whole payments) related to such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property that secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property); and (h) any Lien which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions, to the extent that the aggregate principal amount of the Debt so secured, together with the aggregate principal amount of other Debt secured by Liens then outstanding (excluding Debt secured by Liens permitted under the foregoing exceptions and any obligation existing on the date the Securities are originally issued that becomes Debt after such date solely due to a change in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) and the Attributable Debt in respect of all Sale/Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of this Indenture (not including Attributable Debt in respect of any such Sale/Leaseback Transactions the proceeds of which are applied to the prepayment of outstanding Securities or other Debt of the Corporation as set forth below under paragraph (3) of Section 1007) would not then exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Limitation on Liens.
provided, however
 
SECTION 1007. The Corporation shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Corporation to, enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transaction with any Person (other than the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation) unless:
Limitation on Sale/Leaseback Transactions.
(1) at the time of entering into such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, the Corporation or such Subsidiary would be entitled to Incur Debt, in a principal amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, secured by a Lien on such Principal Property subject to such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, pursuant to Section 1006 without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to such provisions;
(2) after the date on which Securities are first issued and within a period commencing six months prior to the consummation of such Sale/Leaseback Transaction and ending six months after the consummation thereof, the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall have expended for property used or to be used in the ordinary course of business of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (including amounts expended for additions, expansions, alterations, repairs and improvements thereto) an amount equal to all or a portion of the net proceeds of such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, and the Corporation shall have elected to designate such amount as a credit against such Sale/Leaseback Transaction (with any portion of such amount not being so designated to be applied as set forth in clause (3) below except to the extent permitted under clause (1) above); or
(3) during the 12-month period after the effective date of such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, the Corporation shall have applied to the voluntary defeasance or retirement of Securities or any Debt of the Corporation (other than Securities or Debt that is held by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation or Debt of the Corporation that is subordinate in right of payment to the Securities) an amount equal to the net proceeds of the sale or transfer of the property leased in such Sale/Leaseback Transaction, which amount shall not be less than the fair value of such property at the time of entering into such Sale/Leaseback Transaction (adjusted to reflect any amount expended by the Corporation as set forth in clause (2) above), less an amount equal to the principal amount of such Securities and Debt voluntarily defeased or retired by the Corporation within such 12-month period and not designated as a credit against any other Sale/Leaseback Transaction entered into by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation during such period.
SECTION 1008. The Corporation may, with respect to any series of Securities, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition which affects such series set forth in Section 803 or Sections 1005 to 1007, inclusive, if the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such noncompliance (as one class), by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Corporation and the duties of the Trustee to Holders of Securities of such series in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Waiver of Certain Covenants.
 
SECTION 1101. Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article.
SECTION 1102. The election of the Corporation to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by or pursuant to a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Corporation, the Corporation shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Corporation (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities to be redeemed pursuant to Section 1103. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Corporation shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
SECTION 1103. If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series; , that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security not redeemed to less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 301.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
provided, however
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Corporation in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 1104. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 107 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption.
 
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price (together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 1106) will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(5) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, and
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Corporation shall be given by the Corporation or, at the Corporation's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Corporation.
SECTION 1105. On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Corporation shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Corporation is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price.
SECTION 1106. Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 3l2(d) and 312(e)) (together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Corporation shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued and unpaid interest) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Corporation at the Redemption Price, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Redemption Date; , , that installments of interest on Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
provided
however
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in the Security.
SECTION 1107. Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article Twelve) shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Corporation or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part.
SECTION 1201. Retirements of Securities of any series pursuant to any sinking fund shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any mandatory sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
SECTION 1202. Subject to Section 1203, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Corporation may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation and/or (2) receive credit for the principal amount of Securities of such series which have been previously delivered to the Trustee by the Corporation or for Securities of such series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Corporation pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of the same series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; , , that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such mandatory sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1203. Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Corporation will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering or crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 (which Securities will, if not previously delivered, accompany such certificate) and whether the Corporation intends to exercise its right to make a permitted optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series. Such certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its delivery the Corporation shall be obligated to make the cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Corporation to deliver such certificate, the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Securities as provided in Section 1202 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment, if any, with respect to such series.
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not more than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Corporation in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
Prior to any sinking fund payment date, the Corporation shall pay to the Trustee or a Paying Agent (or, if the Corporation is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) in cash a sum equal to any interest that will accrue to the date fixed for redemption of Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 1203.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a sinking fund for any series of Securities, if at any time the amount of cash to be paid into such sinking fund on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date, together with any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payment or payments for such series, does not exceed in the aggregate $100,000, the Trustee, unless requested by the Corporation, shall not give the next succeeding notice of the redemption of Securities of such series through the operation of the sinking fund. Any such unused balance of moneys deposited in such sinking fund shall be added to the sinking fund payment for such series to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date or, at the request of the Corporation, shall be applied at any time or from time to time to the purchase of Securities of such series, by public or private purchase, in the open market or otherwise, at a purchase price for such Securities (excluding accrued and unpaid interest and brokerage commissions, for which the Trustee or any Paying Agent will be reimbursed by the Corporation) not in excess of the principal amount thereof.
 
SECTION 1301. Repayment of Securities of any series before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article.
SECTION 1302. Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided to the terms of such Securities, be repaid at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Repayment Date specified in or pursuant to the terms of such Securities. The Corporation covenants that, on or before the Repayment Date, it will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Corporation is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal (or, if so provided by the terms of the Securities of any series, a percentage of the principal) of, and (except if the Repayment Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued and unpaid interest on, all the Securities or portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid on such date.
Repayment of Securities.
SECTION 1303. Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder (or by the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Corporation at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places or which the Corporation shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the principal amount of such Security to be repaid, in increments of the minimum denomination for Securities of such series, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the principal amount of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid, must be specified. The principal amount of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Corporation.
Exercise of Option.
 
SECTION 1304. If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by or pursuant to the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Corporation on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Corporation shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with such provisions, the principal amount of such Security so to be repaid shall be paid by the Corporation, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Repayment Date; , , that installments of interest, if any, whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable.
provided
however
If the principal amount of any Security surrendered for repayment shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, such principal amount (together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, such Repayment Date) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in such Security.
SECTION 1305. Upon surrender of any Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Corporation, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid.
Securities Repaid in Part.
SECTION 1401. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, the provisions of this Article Fourteen shall apply to each series of Securities, and the Corporation may, at its option, effect defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under Section 1402, or covenant defeasance of or within a series under Section 1403 in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article.
Corporation's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
SECTION 1402. Upon the Corporation's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Corporation shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities on the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Corporation shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Outstanding Securities, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of
Defeasance and Discharge.
defeasance
 
Section 1405 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (A), (B) and (C) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Corporation, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1404 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Corporation's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 705, 1002 and 1003, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article Fourteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Fourteen, the Corporation may exercise its option under this Section 1402 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1403 with respect to such Securities.
SECTION 1403. Upon the Corporation's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Corporation shall be released from its obligations under Section 803 and Sections 1005 through 1007, and, if specified pursuant to Section 301, its obligations under any other covenant, with respect to such Outstanding Securities on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and such Securities shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to such Outstanding Securities, the Corporation may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 501(4) or Section 501(8) or otherwise, as the case may be, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Covenant Defeasance.
covenant defeasance
SECTION 1404. The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403 to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series:
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
(1) The Corporation shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 607 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Fourteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (A) an amount (in such Currency in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity), or (B) Government Obligations applicable to such Securities (determined on the basis of the Currency in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity) which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment of principal (including any
 
premium) and interest, if any, under such Securities, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Outstanding Securities on the Stated Maturity (or Redemption Date, if applicable) of such, principal (and premium, if any) or installment or interest and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to such Outstanding Securities on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities; that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such Government Obligations to said payments with respect to such Securities. Before such a deposit, the Corporation may give to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1102 hereof, a notice of its election to redeem all or any portion of such Outstanding Securities at a future date in accordance with the terms of the Securities of such series and Article Eleven hereof, which notice shall be irrevocable. Such irrevocable redemption notice, if given, shall be given effect in applying the foregoing.
provided
(2) No Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as paragraphs (6) and (7) of Section 501 are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
(3) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Corporation is a party or by which it is bound.
(4) In the case of an election under Section 1402, the Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States stating that (x) the Corporation has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable U.S. federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Outstanding Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred.
(5) In the case of an election under Section 1403, the Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States to the effect that the Holders of such Outstanding Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
 
(6) The Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit made by the Corporation pursuant to its election under Section 1402 or 1403 was not made by the Corporation with the intent of preferring the Holders over other creditors of the Corporation or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Corporation or others.
(7) The Corporation has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such deposit shall not cause the Trustee or the trust so created to be subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(8) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations in connection therewith pursuant to Section 301.
(9) The Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1402 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1403 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
SECTION 1405. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 1405, the "") pursuant to Section 1404 in respect of such Outstanding Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Corporation acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
Trustee
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to Section 301, if, after a deposit referred to in Section 1404(1) has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to Section 312(b) or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a Currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs as contemplated in Section 312(d) or 312(e) or by the terms of any Security in respect of which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of (premium, if any, on), and interest, if any, on such Security as they become due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the Currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on the applicable Market Exchange Rate for such Currency in effect on the third Business Day prior to each payment date, except, with respect to a Conversion Event, for such Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event.
 
The Corporation shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1404 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this Article Fourteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Corporation from time to time upon Corporation Request any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Section 1404 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants selected by the Corporation expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this article.
SECTION 1406. If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1405 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Corporation's obligations under this Indenture and such Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 1402 or 1403, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1405; , that if the Corporation makes any payment of principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on any such Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement.
provided, however
SECTION 1501. A meeting of the Holders of the Securities of one or more series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article for one or more of the following purposes:
Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called.
(a) to give any notice to the Corporation or to the Trustee, to give any directions to the Trustee, to consent to the waiving of any Event of Default hereunder and the consequences thereof or to take any other action authorized to be taken by the Holders of the Securities of such series pursuant to any of the provisions of Article Five;
(b) to remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series pursuant to the provisions of Article Six;
(c) to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 902; or
 
(d) to take any other action required or permitted to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
SECTION 1502. (a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, to be held at such time and at such place in Minnesota or in such other place as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided for in Section 107, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call, Notice and Place of Meetings.
(b) In case at any time the Corporation, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Corporation or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in Minnesota or in such other place as the Trustee may approve for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
SECTION 1503. To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder of Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Person or Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel, and any representatives of the Corporation and its counsel.
Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.
SECTION 1504. The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series; , that, if any action is to be taken at such meeting with respect to a consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than a specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Persons entitled to vote such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the
Quorum; Action.
provided, however
 
adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1502(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Subject to the foregoing, at the reconvening of any meeting adjourned for lack of a quorum the Persons entitled to vote 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities at the time shall constitute a quorum for the taking of any action set forth in the notice of the original meeting.
Except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; , that, except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
provided, however
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1504, if any action is to be taken at a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action that this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby, or of the Holders of such series and one or more additional series acting as one class:
(i) there shall be no minimum quorum requirement for such meeting; and
(ii) the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series that vote in favor of such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be taken into account in determining whether such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action has been made, given or taken under this Indenture.
 
SECTION 1505. (a) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 105 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 105. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 105 or other proof.
Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings.
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Corporation or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1502(b), in which case the Corporation or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
(c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by him (determined as specified in the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101); , that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy.
provided, however
(d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1502 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
SECTION 1506. The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the Secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1502 and, if applicable, Section 1504. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Corporation, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings.
 
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
[Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to the Corporation (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL in as much as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.]
 
The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to [Cede & Co.]*, or registered assigns, the principal sum of $(            DOLLARS) on [date and year], at the office or agency of the Corporation referred to below, and to pay interest thereon on [date and year] and semi-annually thereafter, on [date] and [date] in each year, commencing [date and year],** or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of         % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for, and (to the extent lawful) to pay on demand interest on any overdue interest at the rate borne by the Securities from the date on which such overdue interest becomes payable to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the [date] or [date] (whether or not a
Corporation
 
 
 
Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, and (to the extent lawful) interest on such defaulted interest at the rate borne by the Securities, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Corporation designated as its     % [Debentures] [Notes] [due] [Due]                      (hereinafter referred to as the ""), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $[    ,000,000], which may be issued under an indenture (hereinafter referred to as the "") dated as of [ - ], 2011 between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. [This Security is a global Security representing $[    ,    ,000] aggregate principal amount [at maturity]* of the Securities.]**
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for that purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency of the Corporation as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Corporation (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register or (ii) by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
provided, however
[The Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at any time after [date and year], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Corporation[, at a Redemption Price equal to the percentage of the principal amount set forth below if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning [date], of the years indicated:
 
and thereafter] at 100% of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the Redemption Date, all as provided in the Indenture.]
[The Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, at any time at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon
 
 
 
discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus [ - ] basis points, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of redemption.]
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers selected by the Corporation.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if we are unable to obtain three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by us, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to us by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. New York time on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means each of [ - ], [ - ] and [ - ] or any designee selected by any named Reference Treasury Dealer plus two others or their affiliates which are primary U.S. Government securities dealers and their respective successors, , that if any of the foregoing Reference Treasury Dealers shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), we shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
[The Securities are also subject to redemption on [date] in each year commencing in [year] through the operation of a sinking fund, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Redemption Date, all as provided in the Indenture. The sinking fund provides for the [mandatory] redemption on [date] in each year beginning with the year [year] of $         aggregate principal amount of Securities. [In addition, the Corporation may, at its option, elect to redeem up to an additional $         aggregate principal amount of Securities on any such date.] Securities acquired or redeemed by the Corporation (other than through operation of the sinking fund) may be credited against subsequent [mandatory] sinking fund payments.]*
 
[The Securities are subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof on [Repayment Date(s)] at a Repayment Price equal to     % of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Repayment Date, all as provided in the Indenture. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, this Security, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form duly completed by the Holder hereof (or the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Corporation at its office or agency maintained for that purpose in [ - ] not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. Exercise of such option by the Holder of this Security shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Corporation.]**
In the case of any redemption [repayment] of Securities, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date [Repayment Date] will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption [repayment] provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date [Repayment Date].
In the event of redemption [repayment] of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed [unpaid] portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Corporation on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Corporation, with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture at any time by the Corporation and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Corporation with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
 
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Corporation, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Corporation, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for such purpose in [ - ] duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
*[If at any time, (i) the Depositary notified the Corporation that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Corporation within 90 days after the Corporation received such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, [or] (ii) the Corporation determines that the Securities shall no longer be represented by a global Security or Securities [or (iii) any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing], then in such event the Corporation will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate
 
 
 
principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.]
The Indenture and this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Corporation to repay the within Security [(or the portion thereof specified below)], pursuant to its terms, on the "Repayment Date" first occurring after the date of receipt of the within Security as specified below, at a Repayment Price equal to     % of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Repayment Date, to the undersigned at:
(Please Print or Type Name and Address of the Undersigned.)
For this Option to Elect Repayment to be effective, this Security with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received not earlier than 45 days prior to the Repayment Date and not later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date by the Corporation at its office or agency in [ - ].
If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) which is to be repaid: $            
If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the denomination(s) of the Security(ies) to be issued for the unpaid amount ($1,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000): $            .
Dated:
[Note: The signature to this Option to Elect Repayment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Security in every particular without alterations or enlargement or any change whatsoever.]
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
[INSERT ASSIGNEE'S SOC. SEC. INS. OR TAX ID NO.]
 
 
to transfer this Security on the books of the Corporation. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Dated:
Your Signature:
(Sign exactly as name appears on the other side of this Security)
Signature Guarantee:
(Signature must be guaranteed by a commercial bank or trust company, by a member or members' organization of The New York Stock Exchange or by another eligible guarantor institution as defined in Rule 17Ad-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to the Corporation (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL in as much as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
 
The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                     ($                    )  on November 15, 2021, at the office or agency of the Corporation referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from October 24, 2011 and semi-annually thereafter, on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 3.750% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for, and (to the extent lawful) to pay on demand interest on any overdue interest at the rate borne by the Securities from the date on which such overdue interest becomes payable to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, and (to the extent lawful) interest on such defaulted interest at the rate borne by the Securities, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful
Corporation
manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: October 24, 2011
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Corporation designated as its 3.750% Senior Notes due 2021 (hereinafter referred to as the ""), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $450,000,000, which may be issued under an indenture (hereinafter referred to as the "") dated as of October 24, 2011 between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is a global Security representing $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Securities.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this global Security will be made to DTC for the purpose of permitting DTC to credit the principal and interest received by it in respect of this global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof; , , that if this Security is not a global Security, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for that purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency of the Corporation as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; and , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Corporation (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register or (ii) by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
provided
however
provided
further
The Securities will be redeemable at any time and from time to time. Prior to August 15, 2021 (three months prior to the maturity date), the Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 25 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
On or after August 15, 2021, (three months prior to the maturity date), the Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation (including any executive order) to close in The City of New York.
Business Day
"" means the U.S. Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Corporation is unable to obtain at least five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers selected by the Corporation.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC or any designee selected by any named Reference Treasury Dealer plus two others or their affiliates which are primary U.S. Government securities dealers and their respective successors, , that if any of the foregoing Reference Treasury Dealers shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States of America (a ""), the Corporation shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Corporation, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Corporation by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. (New York time) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
In the case of any redemption of Securities, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Corporation has exercised its right to redeem the Securities, Holders of the Securities that have not been redeemed shall have the right to require the Corporation to repurchase all or any part equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof of the Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the ""). In the Change of Control Offer, the Corporation shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to, but not including, the date of purchase (""), subject to the right of Holders of the Securities being repurchased on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. No later than 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities or, at its option, prior to a Change of Control, but after such public announcement of the Change of Control, the Corporation shall be required to mail a notice to Holders of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""), pursuant to the procedures described in such notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Triggering Event occurring prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. The Corporation shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture, the Corporation shall be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture by virtue of such conflicts.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Exchange Act
On or before the Change of Control Payment Date with respect to Securities, the Corporation shall be required to:
 
 
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a repurchase at the option of Holders of Securities, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies, on any date from the earlier of (i) the date of the Change of Control and (ii) the date of the public notice of an arrangement or transaction that could result in a Change of Control, until the end of the 60-day period following such date, which 60-day period shall be extended if, by the end of the 60-day period, the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies if the other Rating Agency has already lowered its ratings on the Securities as aforesaid, such extension to continue for so long as consideration for a possible downgrade continues by such Rating Agency.
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, consolidation or amalgamation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or amalgamation) the result of which is that one or more "persons" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50 percent of the total voting power in the aggregate of all classes of the Corporation's voting stock normally entitled to vote in the elections of directors, other than any such transaction where shares of the Corporation's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the total voting power of the voting stock of such person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Corporation's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; (4) the Corporation consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Corporation, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Corporation's outstanding common shares or such other person's outstanding common shares is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where shares of the Corporation's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the total voting power of the voting stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
Change of Control
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Corporation becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of a Person and (2) the direct or indirect holders of the common shares of such Person immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Corporation's common shares, or other voting shares into which the Corporation's common shares are reclassified, consolidated, exchange or changed immediately prior to that transaction.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Corporation's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities, or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Corporation's proxy circular in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P, and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for any reason, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization " within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Corporation (by a resolution of its Board of Directors) as a replacement agency with respect to the Securities for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
The Corporation shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Securities upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes an equivalent offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for a Change of Control Offer made by the Corporation and such third party purchases all the Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
The failure by the Corporation to comply with its obligations in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event described above for a period of 60 days after written notice to the Corporation by the Trustee or to the Corporation and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities will constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities. If such an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal
amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the principal amount of such Securities and all interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, by notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Corporation on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Corporation, with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture at any time by the Corporation and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Corporation with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Corporation, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Corporation, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for such purpose in New York, New York duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If at any time, (i) the Depositary notified the Corporation that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Corporation within 90 days after the Corporation received such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Corporation determines that the Securities shall no longer be represented by a global Security or Securities or (iii) any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then in such event the Corporation will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
The Indenture and this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.3
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to the Corporation (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL in as much as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
 
The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                     ($                    )  on November 15, 2041, at the office or agency of the Corporation referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from October 24, 2011 and semi-annually thereafter, on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 4.875% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for, and (to the extent lawful) to pay on demand interest on any overdue interest at the rate borne by the Securities from the date on which such overdue interest becomes payable to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, and (to the extent lawful) interest on such defaulted interest at the rate borne by the Securities, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful
Corporation
manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: October 24, 2011
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Corporation designated as its 4.875% Senior Notes due 2041 (hereinafter referred to as the ""), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000, which may be issued under an indenture (hereinafter referred to as the "") dated as of October 24, 2011 between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is a global Security representing $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Securities.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this global Security will be made to DTC for the purpose of permitting DTC to credit the principal and interest received by it in respect of this global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof; , , that if this Security is not a global Security, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for that purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency of the Corporation as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; and , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Corporation (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register or (ii) by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
provided
however
provided
further
The Securities will be redeemable at any time and from time to time. Prior to May 15, 2041 (six months prior to the maturity date), the Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 30 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
On or after May 15, 2041, (six months prior to the maturity date), the Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation (including any executive order) to close in The City of New York.
Business Day
"" means the U.S. Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Corporation is unable to obtain at least five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers selected by the Corporation.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC or any designee selected by any named Reference Treasury Dealer plus two others or their affiliates which are primary U.S. Government securities dealers and their respective successors, , that if any of the foregoing Reference Treasury Dealers shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States of America (a ""), the Corporation shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Corporation, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Corporation by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. (New York time) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
In the case of any redemption of Securities, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Corporation has exercised its right to redeem the Securities, Holders of the Securities that have not been redeemed shall have the right to require the Corporation to repurchase all or any part equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof of the Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the ""). In the Change of Control Offer, the Corporation shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to, but not including, the date of purchase (""), subject to the right of Holders of the Securities being repurchased on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. No later than 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities or, at its option, prior to a Change of Control, but after such public announcement of the Change of Control, the Corporation shall be required to mail a notice to Holders of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""), pursuant to the procedures described in such notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Triggering Event occurring prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. The Corporation shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture, the Corporation shall be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture by virtue of such conflicts.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Exchange Act
On or before the Change of Control Payment Date with respect to Securities, the Corporation shall be required to:
 
 
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a repurchase at the option of Holders of Securities, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies, on any date from the earlier of (i) the date of the Change of Control and (ii) the date of the public notice of an arrangement or transaction that could result in a Change of Control, until the end of the 60-day period following such date, which 60-day period shall be extended if, by the end of the 60-day period, the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies if the other Rating Agency has already lowered its ratings on the Securities as aforesaid, such extension to continue for so long as consideration for a possible downgrade continues by such Rating Agency.
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, consolidation or amalgamation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or amalgamation) the result of which is that one or more "persons" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50 percent of the total voting power in the aggregate of all classes of the Corporation's voting stock normally entitled to vote in the elections of directors, other than any such transaction where shares of the Corporation's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the total voting power of the voting stock of such person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Corporation's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; (4) the Corporation consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Corporation, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Corporation's outstanding common shares or such other person's outstanding common shares is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where shares of the Corporation's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the total voting power of the voting stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
Change of Control
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Corporation becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of a Person and (2) the direct or indirect holders of the common shares of such Person immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Corporation's common shares, or other voting shares into which the Corporation's common shares are reclassified, consolidated, exchange or changed immediately prior to that transaction.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Corporation's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities, or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Corporation's proxy circular in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P, and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for any reason, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization " within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Corporation (by a resolution of its Board of Directors) as a replacement agency with respect to the Securities for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
The Corporation shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Securities upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes an equivalent offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for a Change of Control Offer made by the Corporation and such third party purchases all the Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
The failure by the Corporation to comply with its obligations in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event described above for a period of 60 days after written notice to the Corporation by the Trustee or to the Corporation and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities will constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities. If such an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal
amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the principal amount of such Securities and all interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, by notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Corporation on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Corporation, with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture at any time by the Corporation and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Corporation with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Corporation, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Corporation, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Corporation maintained for such purpose in New York, New York duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If at any time, (i) the Depositary notified the Corporation that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Corporation within 90 days after the Corporation received such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Corporation determines that the Securities shall no longer be represented by a global Security or Securities or (iii) any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then in such event the Corporation will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
The Indenture and this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

EXHIBIT 5.1
October 24, 2011
The Mosaic Company
3033 Campus Drive, Suite E490
Plymouth, MN 55441
 
File No. 333-177251
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of The Mosaic Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and in such capacity have acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the above-referenced Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), relating to the registration of debt securities of the Company to be offered from time to time. I have also acted as counsel to the Company in connection with a Prospectus Supplement dated October 17, 2011 to the Prospectus dated October 12, 2011 (together, the "Prospectus") relating to the offer and sale by the Company under the Registration Statement of $450 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% Senior Notes due 2021 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2041 (together, the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued under the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2011 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated October 17, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement") among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule A thereto.
I have examined the Registration Statement and I, or attorneys acting under my supervision, also have examined the originals, or duplicates or certified or conformed copies, of such corporate and other records, agreements, documents and other instruments and have made such other investigations as I have deemed relevant and necessary in connection with the opinion hereinafter set forth. As to questions of fact material to this opinion, I have relied upon certificates or comparable documents of public officials.
In rendering the opinion set forth below, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me as duplicates or certified or conformed copies and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.
Based on the foregoing, I am of the opinion that the Notes constitute binding obligations of the Company.
 
The Mosaic Company
October 24, 2011
Page 2
 
The opinion set forth above is subject to the following qualifications and exceptions:
 
 
 
 
 
I do not express any opinion herein concerning any laws other than the Delaware General Corporation Law (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing) and the laws of the State of New York (excluding state blue sky securities law matters).
 
The Mosaic Company
October 24, 2011
Page 3
 
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the reference to the use of my name under the caption "Legal Matters" contained in the prospectus constituting part of the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 12.1
Pro-Forma Basis                
 


