FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110923104734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's preliminary earnings summary for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2011 as presented in a press release issued on September 23, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, September 23, 2011  In conjunction with the announcement yesterday of a secondary offering of shares related to the Company's inclusion in the S&P 500 index, The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced first quarter fiscal year 2012 net earnings increased 77 percent to $526 million and earnings per diluted share increased 75 percent to $1.17. Mosaic's net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased 41 percent to $3.1 billion. Segment volumes, realized prices, operating rates, and the tax rate were all within the ranges of the Company's previously disclosed estimates.
Consolidated gross margin rose 4.4 percentage points to 27.5 percent driven by improvements in both Phosphates and Potash. Phosphate margins improved 3 percentage points to 18 percent as higher prices were partially offset by higher ammonia and sulfur costs. Potash margins improved 10 percentage points to 51 percent, with higher prices and higher operating rates both contributing to margin improvements.
The Company believes the fundamental outlook for the industry remains strong as a result of low global stocks of grain and oilseeds, attractive agricultural commodity prices and record farm net income.
These preliminary results are based upon management's expectations and currently available information.
Mosaic will release full earnings after market close on Wednesday, September 28, 2011 and conduct a conference call on Thursday, September 29, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. EDT to discuss first
 
quarter earnings results as well as global markets and trends. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at .
www.mosaicco.com/investors
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation and implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; further developments in the lawsuit involving the tolling agreement at the Company's Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, potash mine, including settlement or orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court, the plaintiff or others in relation to the lawsuit; the effectiveness of our processes for managing our strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including among others asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation or Canadian resource taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The Mosaic Company has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents filed with the SEC for more complete information about The Mosaic Company and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, The Mosaic Company, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free (866) 803-9204 or (888) 827-7275.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 


