FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20111012164033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On October 12, 2011, The Mosaic Company announced its plans to redeem the remaining $469 million aggregate principal amount of its 7-5/8% senior notes due December 2016 (the "Notes") pursuant to the terms of the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 relating to the Notes. A copy of the press release announcing the plan to redeem the Notes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Notes are expected to be redeemed on December 1, 2011 at a price of $1,038.13 per $1,000 principal amount. Interest accrued and unpaid to the redemption date of $76.25 per $1,000 in principal amount of the Notes will be paid on December 1, 2011 to the holder of record of the redeemed Notes on the regular record date of November 15, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, October 12, 2011  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) announced today that it plans to redeem the remaining $469 million aggregate principal amount of its 7-5/8% senior notes due December 2016 (the "Notes") pursuant to the terms of the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 relating to the Notes. The redemption date is expected to be December 1, 2011. Calling the bonds is expected to eliminate annual interest expense of approximately $36 million, upon redemption of the Notes.
The Notes will be redeemed at a price of $1,038.13 per $1,000 principal amount. Interest accrued and unpaid to the redemption date will be paid on December 1, 2011 to the holder of record of the redeemed Notes on the regular record date of November 15, 2011. The Company expects to record a charge of approximately $20 million in its third fiscal quarter, primarily related to the call premium.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and
 
exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation and implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; further developments in the lawsuit involving the tolling agreement at the Company's Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, potash mine, including settlement or orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court, the plaintiff or others in relation to the lawsuit; the effectiveness of our processes for managing our strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including among others asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation or Canadian resource taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


