FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110719082541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2011 as presented in a press release issued on July 18, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, July 18, 2011  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) reported fourth quarter net earnings of $649 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, for the quarter ended May 31, 2011. These results compare to net earnings of $396 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter ended May 31, 2010. Mosaic's net sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $2.9 billion, a 54 percent increase from $1.9 billion in the same period last year.
"Our fourth quarter results were very strong as global demand for Mosaic's crop nutrient products remained robust," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic. "Fiscal 2011 was an exceptional year for Mosaic. We generated strong earnings and cash flow due to higher shipments, increased prices and strong operating performance, especially in our Phosphates segment in the face of an often challenging environment. In addition, we completed the complex split-off from Cargill which gives us increased strategic and financial flexibility.
"Looking to fiscal 2012, we anticipate another good year given continued healthy global nutrient demand," Prokopanko continued. "With excellent farmer economics and with grain and oilseed inventories expected to remain near record lows, farmers are incented to use crop nutrients to enhance their yields. Our leading position as a large-scale global producer, expected benefits from our continued potash and phosphate investments, and our exceptional financial strength all position us very well to enhance shareholder value."
Mosaic's gross margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was $995 million, or 35 percent of net sales, compared to $688 million, or 37 percent of net sales, a year ago. Fourth quarter operating earnings were $825 million compared to $548 million a year ago. The increase in gross margin and operating earnings was driven primarily by higher selling prices partially offset by increased phosphate raw material costs and potash resource taxes and royalties.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was $973 million compared to $532 million in the prior year. This increase was largely due to an improvement in net earnings. Capital expenditures totaled $366 million in the quarter. Mosaic's total cash and cash equivalents, net of debt as of May 31, 2011, was $3.1 billion, up from $1.2 billion a year ago.
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potash
 
"Our Potash business produced at very high operating rates during the fourth quarter in response to strong demand. North American producer inventories remain low and fundamentals remain robust with rising prices as we ended the quarter. During the year, we made great progress on our potash expansion program, a key strategic priority designed to maintain our status as one of the leading potash producers in the world," said Prokopanko.
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $982 million for the fourth quarter, compared to $697 million a year ago. Gross margin was $516 million, or 53 percent of net sales, compared to $378 million, or 54 percent of net sales, a year ago. The decline in gross margin percent was primarily the result of higher Canadian resource taxes and royalties. Gross margin excluding resource taxes, a measure comparable to certain peer reporting, was 63 percent in the fourth quarter compared to 60 percent a year ago.
Operating earnings were $469 million, compared to $347 million in the prior year. The improvement in operating earnings was primarily due to increased selling prices and volumes partially offset by higher Canadian resource taxes and royalties which totaled $108 million compared to $42 million a year ago.
The average fourth quarter MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $404 per tonne, up from $336 a year ago. The Potash segment's total sales volumes for the fourth quarter were 2.2 million tonnes, compared to 1.8 million tonnes last year. The increase in sales was a result of improved demand compared to a year ago.
Potash production was 2.2 million tonnes, or 95 percent of operational capacity, an increase from 1.9 million tonnes, or 85 percent of operational capacity a year ago.
Phosphates
 
"Our phosphates business ended the year on a strong note with robust shipments worldwide," stated Prokopanko. "Our Phosphates team executed remarkably well, mitigating the impact of lower rock production at South Fort Meade. In addition, our ongoing investments to enhance productivity continue to gain traction."
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $1.9 billion for the fourth quarter compared to $1.2 billion last year. Gross margin was $479 million, or 25 percent of net sales, compared to $307 million, or 26 percent of net sales, for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $370 million, compared to $221 million last year. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to increased selling prices partially offset by higher raw material costs.
The average fourth quarter DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $574 per tonne, compared to $438 a year ago. Phosphates segment total sales volumes were 2.8 million tonnes, compared to 2.3 million tonnes a year ago. The increase in sales volumes was driven mainly by higher international sales in the Company's distribution business.
Mosaic's North American finished phosphate production was 2.1 million tonnes, or 86 percent of operational capacity, compared to 1.9 million tonnes, or 79 percent, a year ago. The Company's phosphate rock production was 3.2 million tonnes during the fourth quarter compared to 3.5 million tonnes a year ago. Phosphate rock production was lower due to reduced output at the South Fort Meade mine as compared to the prior year due to a temporary injunction, partially offset by higher production at the Four Corners mine.
Other
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $112 million for the fourth quarter, compared to $114 million a year ago, and included $11 million in multi-year charitable giving expenses. Other operating expenses were $59 million for the fourth quarter compared to $26 million a year ago. Other operating expenses in the fourth quarter included a $17 million asset write off in Louisiana, $15 million in environmental accruals related to certain inactive Phosphates sites, and $9 million in costs associated with the Cargill split-off transaction. Income tax expense was $186 million for the fourth quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 22 percent, compared to $139 million, or 26 percent, for the same period last year. The lower income tax rate was primarily due to higher foreign tax credits resulting from our earnings mix.
Full Year
For the year ended May 31, 2011, net income reached a record $2.5 billion, or $5.62 per share, the highest annual results in the Company's history. Net sales were $9.9 billion, an increase of 47 percent from $6.8 billion reported a year ago. Full year operating earnings were $2.7 billion compared to $1.3 billion a year ago. Improvements in sales and operating earnings were due to increased phosphate selling prices and higher potash volumes, partially offset by higher phosphate raw material costs. Full year selling, general and administrative expenses were $373 million compared to $360 million last year. Equity earnings were a loss of $5 million compared to a loss of $11 million last year. Fiscal 2011 included a $686 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Mosaic's interest in Fosfertil S.A, or $1.25 per share. Net cash provided by operating activities reached $2.4 billion.
Financial Guidance
"Mosaic is ideally positioned to meet the expected long-term global demand growth for crop nutrients, with the leading combined capacity in potash and phosphates," Prokopanko said. "We continue to invest to expand capacity, improve productivity and to distinguish Mosaic in the market with our premium products, such as Micro-Essentials, Pegasus and K-Mag. With the Cargill split-off successfully completed, we are now fully focused on opportunities to create additional shareholder value."
Total sales volumes for the Potash segment are expected to range from 1.7 to 1.9 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized MOP price, FOB plant, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $430 to $455 per tonne.
Total sales volumes for the Phosphates segment are expected to range from 3.0 to 3.3 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized DAP price, FOB plant, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $560 to $590 per tonne.
The first quarter operating rate in the Potash segment is expected to range from 75 percent to 85 percent of operational capacity, down from the fourth quarter due to planned seasonal maintenance turnarounds. The Company's operating rate at its North American phosphate operations is expected to exceed 85 percent of operational capacity during its first quarter.
The Company continues to advance its brownfield potash expansion plans at its three Saskatchewan, Canada mine sites and to fund projects that improve efficiencies. Total capital spending for fiscal 2012 is expected to range from $1.6 to $1.9 billion.
Selling, general and administrative expenses are estimated to range from $400 to $430 million in fiscal 2012.
Canadian resource taxes and royalties for fiscal 2012 are expected to range from $420 to $470 million. Canadian resource taxes and royalties are included as a component of cost of goods sold in the Company's consolidated income statement.
Mosaic estimates an effective income tax rate in the upper 20 percent range.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Tuesday, July 19, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. EDT to discuss fourth quarter earnings results as well as global markets and trends. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and the effects of the current economic and financial turmoil; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; further developments in the lawsuit involving the tolling agreement at the Company's Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, potash mine, including settlement or orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court, the plaintiff or others in relation to the lawsuit; the effectiveness of our processes for managing our strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation differing from management's current estimates; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company recorded the following discrete expense items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Mosaic Company
 
Selected Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations
Potash Gross Margin, Excluding Resource Taxes and Royalties, Calculation
 
 
The Company's margins are further reduced by the impact of a third party tolling agreement.
Free Cash Flow Calculation
 
 
The Company has presented above gross margin excluding resource taxes, for its potash segment which is a non-GAAP financial measure. In addition, the Company has presented free cash flow, which is also a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a supplemental numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Neither gross margin excluding resource taxes nor free cash flow are measures of financial performance under GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, investors should consider that our calculation may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Gross margin excluding resource taxes provides a measure that the Company believes enhances the reader's ability to compare the Company's gross margin with that of other companies which incur resource tax expense and classify it in a manner different than the Company in their statement of earnings. Because securities analysts, investors, lenders and others use gross margin excluding resource taxes, Mosaic's management believes that our presentation of gross margin excluding resource taxes for the potash segment affords them greater transparency in assessing our financial performance against competitors. Gross margin excluding resource taxes, should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Free cash flow provides a metric that the Company believes is helpful to investors in evaluating the Company's ability to generate cash. Free cash flow should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.


