FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110511163649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Departure of Named Executive Officer
On May 5, 2011, Norman B. Beug, Senior Vice President  Potash Operations of The Mosaic Company (the "Company") and a "named executive officer" within the meaning of Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, announced that he would retire from the Company in 2012. James C. O'Rourke, Executive Vice President  Operations, has assumed responsibility for the daily operations of the Company's Potash business unit. Effective May 11, 2011, the Board of Directors removed Mr. Beug as an executive officer.
(e) Compensatory Arrangement for Named Executive Officer
On May 11, 2011, pursuant to authorization of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, the Company entered into a Retirement Agreement (the "Agreement") with Mr. Beug. The Agreement provides that Mr. Beug will retain his title and compensation as Senior Vice President  Potash Operations until May 31, 2011. Thereafter, Mr. Beug will transition to the role of Senior Advisor to the Company on a part-time basis until July 31, 2012 (or for an additional year, upon mutual agreement), in which capacity he will retain certain responsibilities and advise Mr. O'Rourke on a range of matters. In connection with Mr. Beug's retirement, he is entitled to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Agreement also includes nondisclosure and nonsolicitation agreements and a general release to be signed by Mr. Beug.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


