FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20110615164701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements for Named Executive Officers
On June 9, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Mosaic Company (the "Company") approved a special cash compensation program (the "New Horizon Special Compensation Awards") to recognize significant contributions to the success of the May 25, 2011 split-off (the "Split-off") by Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill") of its approximately 64% equity interest in the Company, including approval by the Company's stockholders at a special meeting held on May 11, 2011 and the sale of 115.0 million shares of the Company's stock by certain former Cargill stockholders and debt holders on May 25, 2011. In addition, on June 14, 2011, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, approved a New Horizon Special Compensation Award to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President. The Split-off represents the culmination of over three years of effort by a number of the Company's officers and employees, and we expect that it will benefit us by improving our long-term strategic and financial flexibility, as well as greatly increasing the liquidity of our common stock. The Committee approved an aggregate of approximately $7 million of New Horizon Special Compensation Awards to more than three dozen officers and employees who played material roles in contributing to the success of the Split-off, including the following awards to the Company's "named executive officers" within the meaning of Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K: James T. Prokopanko, Chief Executive Officer and President, Richard L. Mack, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and Lawrence W. Stranghoener, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, $1 million each; and James ("Joc") C. O'Rourke, Executive Vice President  Operations, $500,000.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


