FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20120328203655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended February 29, 2012 as presented in a press release issued on March 28, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, March 28, 2012  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) reported third quarter fiscal 2012 net earnings of $273 million, compared to $542 million a year ago. The decline was primarily driven by lower potash volumes and higher phosphate raw material costs. Earnings per diluted share were $0.64 in the quarter compared to $1.21 in the quarter last year. In the 2012 quarter, earnings per diluted share were negatively impacted by notable items totaling $0.08, primarily foreign currency transaction losses. Mosaic's net sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $2.2 billion, flat with the same period last year, as growth in phosphate sales was offset by declines in potash sales.
"We are continuing to make significant strategic progress for long-term success even as we work through seasonal and cyclical market factors, and we feel very good about our business momentum," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic. "Our potash expansion initiative remains on track and on budget, as we bring several major projects to completion this calendar year. Our innovative premium phosphate product, MicroEssentials, continues to win an increasing share of North American sales, and we will have new capacity in fiscal 2013.
"During the third fiscal quarter, we reached two important agreements to resolve matters that created uncertainty for investors. We reached an agreement on our potash tolling dispute, which will result in 1.3 million tonnes of peaking capacity for Mosaic beginning in January 2013, and we reached a settlement agreement to allow us to return to full operation at the South Fort Meade phosphate mine. We also demonstrated both the strength of our balance sheet and our commitment to shareholders by increasing our annual dividend by 150 percent."
 
Mosaic's gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $522 million, or 24 percent of net sales, compared to $854 million, or 39 percent of net sales, a year ago. Third quarter operating earnings were $414 million, a decrease of 46 percent compared to $771 million a year ago. The decreases in gross margin and operating earnings were driven primarily by lower potash volumes and higher phosphate raw material costs.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $405 million compared to $366 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures totaled $412 million in the quarter. Mosaic's total cash and cash equivalents were $3.2 billion and long-term debt was $1.0 billion as of February 29, 2012.
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potash
 
"The Potash segment's operating results reflect delayed purchases, as buyers remained cautious," Mr. Prokopanko said. "While the seasonal lull and risk aversion slowed sales in the third fiscal quarter, we continue to expect near-record global shipments in 2012 and a very strong North American spring season. During the quarter, we produced 1.8 million tonnes and positioned inventory to capture global demand as it emerges."
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $553 million for the third quarter, down 27 percent compared to $758 million a year ago, as a decline in sales volumes more than offset higher prices. Gross margin was $270 million, or 49 percent of net sales, compared to $412 million, or 54 percent of net sales, a year ago. Operating earnings were $234 million, down 43 percent compared to $414 million in the prior year. The decreases in gross margin and operating earnings were primarily the result of lower sales volumes. Gross margin excluding resource taxes and royalties, a measure comparable to certain peer reporting, was 60 percent in the third quarter compared to 62 percent a year ago.
The third quarter average MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $453 per tonne, up from $358 a year ago. The Potash segment's total sales volumes for the third quarter were 1.1 million tonnes, compared to 1.9 million tonnes a year ago.
Potash production was 1.8 million tonnes, or 79 percent of operational capacity, a decrease from 2.0 million tonnes, or 90 percent of operational capacity, a year ago. The 2012 quarter production reflected the initial impact of the Company's previously announced curtailments, while allowing a replenishment of low beginning inventories and positioning of product for an expected strong North American application season.
 
Phosphates
 
"We generated strong phosphate sales in the quarter," Mr. Prokopanko said. "While margins are expected to remain compressed through the end of this fiscal year, the beginning of fiscal 2013 should benefit from increased production at the South Fort Meade mine and lower spot prices on raw materials. Longer term, we believe the phosphate market provides us with significant opportunities, with strong grower economics driving record shipments in both 2012 and 2013."
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $1.7 billion for the third quarter, up 13 percent compared to $1.5 billion last year. Gross margin was $259 million, or 16 percent of net sales, compared to $454 million, or 31 percent of net sales, for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $190 million, down 49 percent compared to $372 million last year. The decrease in gross margin primarily reflects higher raw materials costs. The Company estimates the Faustina outage increased raw material costs by approximately $10 million in the quarter, which was offset by an $8 million insurance recovery benefit reflected in cost of goods sold. Other operating income included an additional $21 million in the related insurance recovery.
The third quarter average DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $536 per tonne, compared to $543 a year ago. Phosphates segment total sales volumes were 2.6 million tonnes, compared to 2.4 million tonnes a year ago.
Mosaic's North American finished phosphate production was 2.0 million tonnes, or 81 percent of operational capacity, flat with the same period a year ago. North American phosphate rock production was 2.9 million tonnes during the third quarter compared to 3.4 million tonnes a year ago. The year ago quarter included higher output from South Fort Meade from mining a limited 200-acre section of the Hardee County Extension.
 
Other
Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $91 million for the third quarter, an increase from $84 million a year ago. Other operating expense was $17 million for the third quarter compared to other operating income of $1 million a year ago. The year-ago period included an insurance recovery of $38 million, and the current-year period included a Faustina related insurance recovery of $21 million. Foreign currency transaction loss was $44 million for the third quarter compared to a loss of $32 million in the year ago period. Fluctuations were primarily driven by changes in the U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate. Income tax expense was $87 million for the third quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 25 percent, compared to $176 million, or 24 percent, for the same period last year.
Financial Guidance
Total sales volumes for the Potash segment are expected to range from 1.7 to 2.2 million tonnes for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized MOP price, FOB plant, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $420 to $450 per tonne, reflecting a mix change of grades and geographies compared to the third fiscal quarter.
Total sales volumes for the Phosphates segment are expected to range from 2.3 to 2.7 million tonnes for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized DAP price, FOB plant, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $460 to $490 per tonne. Segment margins in the fourth fiscal quarter are expected to remain flat sequentially, driven by the combination of lower expected realized DAP prices offset by realized raw material price declines.
The fourth quarter operating rate in the Potash segment is expected to exceed 70 percent of operational capacity. The Company's operating rate at its North American phosphate operations is expected to exceed 80 percent of operational capacity during its fourth quarter.
Previously disclosed 2012 guidance for the following items has been updated:
 
 
 
 
Canadian resource taxes and royalties are included as a component of cost of goods sold in the Company's consolidated income statement.
 
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the Company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Thursday, March 29, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. EST to discuss third quarter earnings results as well as global markets and trends. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation, implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams or possible efforts to reduce the flow of excess nutrients into the Gulf of Mexico; further developments in judicial or administrative proceedings; difficulties or delays in receiving, increased costs of or challenges to necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including, among others, asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation, or Canadian resources taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
For the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company reported the following notable items which, combined, negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.08:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's margins are further reduced by the impact of a third party tolling agreement.
The Company has presented above gross margin excluding Canadian resource taxes and royalties (CRT) for Potash which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a supplemental numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Gross margin excluding CRT is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, investors should consider that Mosaic's calculation may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Gross margin excluding CRT provides a measure that the Company believes enhances the reader's ability to compare the Company's gross margin with that of other companies which incur CRT expense and classify it in a manner different than the Company in their statement of earnings. Because securities analysts, investors, lenders and others use gross margin excluding CRT, the Company's management believes that Mosaic's presentation of gross margin excluding CRT for Potash affords them greater transparency in assessing Mosaic's financial performance against competitors. Gross margin excluding CRT, should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


