FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20120717084030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2012 as presented in a press release issued on July 17, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, July 17, 2012  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) reported fourth quarter fiscal 2012 net earnings of $507 million, compared to $649 million a year ago. Earnings per diluted share were $1.19 in the quarter compared to $1.45 last year. The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by lower phosphate pricing. In the 2012 quarter, earnings per diluted share were negatively impacted by notable items totaling $0.06. Mosaic's net sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were $2.8 billion, roughly flat with the same period last year, as growth in realized potash prices was offset by lower prices in phosphates.
Mosaic's Board of Directors approved an annual dividend program of $1.00 per share. This program increases the annual targeted dividend 100 percent from the current level of $0.50 per share, and 400 percent from the year-ago level. The new dividend program is planned to go into effect with the next regularly declared dividend, expected to be declared on July 19, 2012. "We completed a fiscal year of significant accomplishments with a strong fourth quarter," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic.
 
"The extended spring season in North America, along with continuing strong demand for our products in Central and South America, led to solid financial results for the quarter. Despite challenging market conditions for much of the fiscal year, Mosaic made great progress. We improved our operating efficiency in both Potash and Phosphates, made substantial headway on our potash expansion projects, set new records for premium product sales and cash from operations, and, most important, our people delivered our best safety performance ever.
"Our business continues to generate substantial cash. While we remain committed to our multi-year, multi-billion-dollar investments for growth, we also have the ability to return capital to our shareholders through dividends and future share repurchases. Today we announced that we will double our annual dividend, to $1.00 per share; in fact, our dividend will have increased 400 percent since February of this year. This decision reflects our confidence in our ability to generate strong results over the long term, as well as our commitment to delivering tangible shareholder value."
Mosaic's gross margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was $834 million, or 30 percent of net sales, compared to $995 million, or 35 percent of net sales, a year ago. Fourth quarter operating earnings were $671 million, a decrease of 19 percent compared to $825 million a year ago. The decreases in gross margin and operating earnings were primarily driven by lower phosphate pricing.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was $1.2 billion compared to $973 million in the prior year. The year-over-year improvement was primarily driven by decreased North American phosphate inventory and increased customer prepayments. Capital expenditures totaled $449 million in the quarter. Mosaic's total cash and cash equivalents were $3.8 billion and long-term debt was $1.0 billion as of May 31, 2012.
Quarterly Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phosphates
 
"Our Phosphates business ended the year on a strong note, with robust shipments worldwide," Prokopanko said. "The phosphate market has tightened, as producer inventories dropped dramatically with global demand more than offsetting lower sales to India. While ammonia prices have increased, we expect these cost increases to be offset by higher finished product prices. As a result, we expect the gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2013 to remain essentially unchanged from the prior quarter. Increased production at the South Fort Meade mine should benefit our rock costs later in the year."
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $1.8 billion for the fourth quarter, down 5 percent compared to last year, primarily driven by lower pricing of finished product. Gross margin was $322 million, or 18 percent of net sales, compared to $479 million, or 25 percent of net sales, for the same period a year ago, reflecting lower finished goods pricing. Operating earnings were $224 million, down 39 percent compared to $370 million last year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2012 other operating expense included $21 million in expenses related to asset retirement obligations of inactive facilities in Florida, a portion of which will benefit future periods.
The fourth quarter average DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $494 per tonne, compared to $574 a year ago. Phosphates segment total sales volumes were 2.9 million tonnes, compared to 2.8 million tonnes a year ago.
 
 
Mosaic's North American finished phosphate production was 2.1 million tonnes, or 86 percent of operational capacity, flat with the same period a year ago. Curtailments early in the quarter were offset by subsequent high operating rates as the market tightened through the 2012 quarter.
Potash
 
"While distributors continued to maintain low inventory levels, as expected, farmers applied high quantities of potash in the fiscal fourth quarter. Even so, our potash mines produced at high operating rates in anticipation of planned summer maintenance shutdowns and expected strong fall demand. For the year, we made great progress on our potash expansion program, a key strategic priority that will allow us to remain one of the leading potash producers in the world," said Prokopanko.
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $1 billion for the fourth quarter, up six percent compared to $982 million a year ago, as higher realized prices were partially offset by a small decline in sales volume. The Company estimates sales volumes in the quarter were negatively impacted by approximately 100,000 tonnes resulting from a now resolved Canadian rail strike. Gross margin was $514 million, or 50 percent of net sales, compared to $516 million, or 53 percent of net sales, a year ago. Gross margin excluding resource taxes and royalties, a measure comparable to certain peer reporting, was 59 percent in the fourth quarter compared to 63 percent a year ago. Operating earnings were $464 million, relatively flat compared to $469 million in the prior year. The year-over-year decrease in gross margin percent was primarily driven by higher brine management costs, higher unrealized mark-to-market losses on derivatives, higher depreciation expense, as well as the effects of lower operating rates.
The fourth quarter average MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $455 per tonne, up from $404 a year ago. The Potash segment's total sales volumes for the fourth quarter were 2.0 million tonnes, compared to 2.2 million tonnes a year ago.
 
 
Potash production was 1.9 million tonnes, or 85 percent of operational capacity, a decrease from 2.2 million tonnes, or 95 percent of operational capacity, a year ago. Fourth quarter operational capacity includes the impact of curtailments early in the quarter.
Other
Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $117 million for the fourth quarter, an increase from $112 million a year ago, primarily as a result of higher information technology spending in the current quarter. Other operating expense was $46 million for the fourth quarter compared to $59 million a year ago. The year-ago period included expenses of $9 million related to the Cargill split-off transaction.
Full Year
For the year ended May 31, 2012, net income reached $1.9 billion, or $4.42 per diluted share. Net sales were $11.1 billion, an increase of 12 percent from $9.9 billion reported a year ago. Full-year operating earnings were $2.6 billion, slightly down from a year ago. Improvements in sales were driven by higher average potash and phosphate selling prices. Operating earnings reflect lower Potash sales volumes and higher phosphate raw material costs. Full year SG&A expenses were $410 million compared to $373 million last year. Equity earnings were $13 million compared to a loss of $5 million last year, primarily driven by higher profitability at Mosaic's joint venture, Miski Mayo mine. Fiscal 2011 included a $686 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Mosaic's interest in Fosfertil S.A, or $1.27 per share. Net cash provided by operating activities reached a record $2.7 billion.
Financial Guidance
"We anticipate another good year in fiscal 2013, with continuing growth in global demand for crop nutrients," Prokopanko said. "Despite the current drought in the U.S. corn belt, farm economics remain compelling, and farmers around the world continue to be incented to use our products to increase their crop yields. Our unique combination of assets, proven execution ability and capital strength position us to help the world grow the food it needs, and to deliver shareholder value."
Total sales volumes for the Potash segment are expected to range from 1.8 to 2.2 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Mosaic's realized MOP price, FOB plant, for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 is estimated to range from $415 to $440 per tonne, with the sequential decline reflecting both seasonal pricing declines in North America and an increased proportion of international sales.
Total sales volumes for the Phosphates segment are expected to range from 2.5 to 2.8 million tonnes for the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Mosaic's realized DAP price, FOB plant, the first quarter of fiscal 2013 is estimated to range from $510 to $535 per tonne. Segment gross margin percentage in the first fiscal quarter is expected to be flat with the prior quarter, as higher finished product prices are offset by higher ammonia prices and a seasonal shift in the mix to more blends, which have a lower gross margin rate.
 
 
The fiscal 2013 first quarter operating rate in the Potash segment is expected to decline, but remain above 70 percent of operational capacity, down from the fourth quarter due to planned seasonal maintenance turnarounds. The Company's operating rate at its North American phosphate operations is expected to exceed 75 percent of operational capacity during first quarter of fiscal 2013, and includes scheduled turnarounds.
The Company continues to advance its brownfield potash expansion plans at its three Saskatchewan, Canada mine sites and to fund projects that improve efficiencies. Total capital spending for fiscal 2013 is expected to range from $1.5 to $1.8 billion.
SG&A expenses are estimated to range from $420 to $445 million in fiscal 2013.
Canadian resource taxes and royalties for fiscal 2013 are expected to range from $320 to $380 million. Brine management costs are expected to be flat with fiscal 2012. Canadian resource taxes and royalties and brine management expenses are included as a component of cost of goods sold for Potash.
For fiscal 2013, Mosaic estimates an effective income tax rate in the upper 20 percent range, consistent with the prior year.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the Company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Tuesday, July 17, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. EDT to discuss fourth quarter earnings results as well as global markets and trends. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation, implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams or possible efforts to reduce the flow of excess nutrients into the Gulf of Mexico; further developments in judicial or administrative proceedings; difficulties or delays in receiving, increased costs of or challenges to necessary governmental permits or approvals or increased financial assurance requirements; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including, among others, asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation, or Canadian resources taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company reported the following notable items which, combined, negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.06:
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company reported the following notable items, which combined, negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.07:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potash Gross Margin, Excluding Resource Taxes and Royalties, Calculation
 
The Company's margins are further reduced by the impact of a third party tolling agreement.
The Company has presented above gross margin excluding Canadian resource taxes and royalties () for Potash which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a supplemental numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Gross margin excluding CRT is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, investors should consider that Mosaic's calculation may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
"CRT"
Gross margin excluding CRT provides a measure that the Company believes enhances the reader's ability to compare the Company's gross margin with that of other companies which incur CRT expense and classify it in a manner different than the Company in their statement of earnings. Because securities analysts, investors, lenders and others use gross margin excluding CRT, the Company's management believes that Mosaic's presentation of gross margin excluding CRT for Potash affords them greater transparency in assessing Mosaic's financial performance against competitors. Gross margin excluding CRT, should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


