FILE:MOS/MOS-8K-20120104204325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing:
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of The Mosaic Company's announcement regarding its earnings and results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2011 as presented in a press release issued on January 4, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Reference is made to the Exhibit Index hereto with respect to the exhibit furnished herewith. The exhibit listed in the Exhibit Index hereto is being "furnished" in accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
PLYMOUTH, MN, January 4, 2012  The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) reported second quarter fiscal 2012 net earnings of $624 million, compared to $1.0 billion in the prior year quarter. Second quarter fiscal 2011 included a $570 million after-tax gain, $1.27 per share, from the sale of the Fosfertil business. Excluding this gain from the prior year period, net earnings were up 37 percent year-over-year. Earnings per diluted share were $1.40 in the quarter compared to $2.29 in the quarter last year, or $1.02 excluding the gain from the sale of Fosfertil last year. Earnings per diluted share included $0.08 per share in foreign currency transaction gains in the 2012 quarter. Mosaic's net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 were $3.0 billion, a 13 percent increase from $2.7 billion in the same period last year, driven by improved pricing, partially offset by lower volumes.
"Our excellent results demonstrate the strength of underlying agricultural fundamentals combined with effective execution by our businesses," said Jim Prokopanko, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mosaic. "While we expect third quarter results to decline due to near-term macroeconomic uncertainty and cautious distributor purchasing behavior, we remain confident of the strong long-term demand prospects for our products. In this environment, we continue to focus on generating value by executing our strategy.
"We made substantial progress on our strategic priorities during the quarter. Our potash expansion initiative remains on track and on budget. We've completed a major phase of our Esterhazy K2 expansion that, when combined with the now certain reversion of the tolling agreement tonnes, increases our potash
capacity by two million tonnes in calendar 2013. Our innovative premium phosphate product, MicroEssentials, continues to take an increasing share of North American sales, adding value to farmers, distributors and shareholders. We also took steps toward optimizing our balance sheet, including the repurchase of nearly five percent of our outstanding shares."
Mosaic's gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 was $881 million, or 29.2 percent of net sales, compared to $768 million, or 28.7 percent of net sales, a year ago. Second quarter operating earnings were $797 million, an increase of 21 percent compared to $658 million a year ago. The increase in gross margin and operating earnings was driven primarily by higher selling prices partially offset by higher phosphate raw material costs and lower volumes.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 was $518 million compared to $532 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures totaled $387 million in the quarter. Mosaic's total cash and cash equivalents were $3.6 billion and long-term debt was $1.0 billion at November 30, 2011, which excludes the $469 million of debt retired on December 1, 2011.
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potash
 
"Our Potash segment's operating earnings grew 42 percent compared to the second quarter last year," said Prokopanko. "While the seasonal lull has recently slowed sales, we expect record global shipments in 2012 and project a strong spring application season. Recent macroeconomic uncertainty has caused distributors around the world to become cautious and we anticipate significant sales volumes will be delayed until our fourth fiscal quarter. We currently maintain appropriate inventory levels and plan to produce at rates needed to satisfy expected demand in the second half of fiscal 2012."
Net sales in the Potash segment totaled $839 million for the second quarter, up 20 percent compared to $699 million a year ago. Gross margin was $394 million, or 47 percent of net sales, compared to $285 million, or 41 percent of net sales, a year ago. Operating earnings were $358 million, up 42 percent compared to $252 million in the prior year. The increase in gross margin and operating earnings was primarily the result of higher year-over-year prices. Gross margin excluding resource taxes, a measure comparable to certain peer reporting, was 55 percent in the second quarter compared to 52 percent a year ago.
The second quarter average MOP selling price, FOB plant, was $440 per tonne, up from $331 a year ago. Sequentially, average MOP prices were down slightly, reflecting a three percent quarterly increase in domestic prices, offset by higher volumes through Canpotex where pricing declined two percent in the quarter. The Potash segment's total sales volumes for the second quarter were 1.8 million tonnes, flat with last year.
Potash production was 1.8 million tonnes, or 78 percent of operational capacity, an increase from 1.7 million tonnes, or 74 percent of operational capacity, a year ago.
Phosphates
 
"Our Phosphates business increased our share of North American sales while generating higher sequential margins," stated Prokopanko. "Last week, we announced a 250,000 tonne curtailment of our phosphate production over the next three months in response to the very cautious buyer behavior we've seen in the past weeks, and the resultant impact on near-term demand. Longer-term, we believe the phosphate market provides us with significant opportunities. Underlying agriculture fundamentals are strong and we expect 2012 global phosphate demand to set yet another record. We are expanding our production capabilities for our premium phosphate product, MicroEssentials, which is delivering proven value to farmers and distributors, and is a clear differentiator for Mosaic."
Net sales in the Phosphates segment were $2.2 billion for the second quarter, up 10 percent compared to $2.0 billion last year. Gross margin was $476 million, or 22 percent of net sales, compared to $476 million, or 24 percent of net sales, for the same period a year ago. Operating earnings were $432 million, up 7 percent compared to $402 million last year. The flat gross margin reflects higher prices, primarily offset by higher raw material costs. The Company estimates the Faustina outage increased raw material costs by approximately $30 million in the quarter. This higher cost was partially offset in other operating earnings by $20 million in a related insurance recovery.
The second quarter average DAP selling price, FOB plant, was $611 per tonne, compared to $461 a year ago. Phosphates segment's total sales volumes were 3.2 million tonnes, compared to 3.7 million tonnes a year ago. Last year's second quarter was an all-time record for sales volumes. Lower international sales were the largest contributor to the sales decline, primarily due to the timing of shipments to India. Mosaic estimates indicate capture of a record share of North American sales in the first half of fiscal 2012, and MicroEssentials grew its share of North American sales to nine percent.
Mosaic's North American finished phosphate production was 2.1 million tonnes, or 86 percent of operational capacity, compared to 2.1 million tonnes, or 88 percent of operational capacity in the same period a year ago. North American phosphate rock production was 2.7 million tonnes during the second quarter compared to 2.5 million tonnes a year ago.
Other
Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $101 million for the second quarter, an increase from $89 million a year ago, driven primarily by higher wages and benefits, as well as an increase in charitable contributions. Other operating income was $16 million for the second quarter compared to other operating expense of $21 million a year ago, and included the Faustina-related $20 million insurance recovery. Foreign currency transaction gain was $55 million for the second quarter compared to a loss of $31 million in the year ago period. Fluctuations were primarily driven by changes in the U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate. Income tax expense was $231 million for the second quarter resulting in an effective tax rate of 27 percent, compared to $281 million, or 22 percent, for the same period last year.
Financial Guidance
Total sales volumes for the Potash segment are expected to range from 1.2 to 1.5 million tonnes for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized MOP price, FOB plant, for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $430 to $460 per tonne.
Total sales volumes for the Phosphates segment are expected to range from 2.2 to 2.6 million tonnes for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Mosaic's realized DAP price, FOB plant, for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 is estimated to range from $530 to $560 per tonne. Segment margins in the third fiscal quarter are expected to decline sequentially driven by the combination of lower expected realized DAP prices, the lagging impact of prior raw material price increases and a planned reduction in production rates. Spot prices of raw materials have declined recently, and that trend is expected to benefit margins in the fourth fiscal quarter.
The third quarter operating rate in the Potash segment is expected to exceed 80 percent of operational capacity. The Company's operating rate at its North American phosphate operations is expected to range from 70 to 80 percent of operational capacity during its third quarter, due to the previously announced 250,000 tonne reduction in finished phosphate production.
Previously disclosed 2012 guidance for capital spending, SG&A, Canadian resource taxes and royalties, and effective income tax rate have not changed:
 
 
 
 
Canadian resource taxes and royalties are included as a component of cost of goods sold in the Company's consolidated income statement.
About The Mosaic Company
The Mosaic Company is one of the world's leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Mosaic is a single source provider of phosphate and potash fertilizers and feed ingredients for the global agriculture industry. More information on the Company is available at www.mosaicco.com.
Mosaic will conduct a conference call on Thursday, January 5, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. EST to discuss second quarter earnings results as well as global markets and trends. Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed through Mosaic's website at www.mosaicco.com/investors. This webcast will be available up to one year from the time of the earnings call.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the predictability and volatility of, and customer expectations about, agriculture, fertilizer, raw material, energy and transportation markets that are subject to competitive and other pressures and economic and credit market conditions; the level of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks; changes in government policy; changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, including greenhouse gas regulation, implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nutrients into Florida lakes and streams or possible efforts to reduce the flow of excess nutrients into the Gulf of Mexico; further developments in the lawsuit involving the federal wetlands permit for the extension of the Company's South Fort Meade, Florida, mine into Hardee County, including orders, rulings, injunctions or other actions by the court or actions by the plaintiffs, the Army Corps of Engineers or others in relation to the lawsuit, or any actions the Company may identify and implement in an effort to mitigate the effects of the lawsuit; other difficulties or delays in receiving, or increased costs of, necessary governmental permits or approvals; the effectiveness of the Company's processes for managing its strategic priorities; adverse weather conditions affecting operations in Central Florida or the Gulf Coast of the United States, including potential hurricanes or excess rainfall; actual costs of various items differing from management's current estimates, including, among others, asset retirement, environmental remediation, reclamation or other environmental regulation, or Canadian resources taxes and royalties; accidents and other disruptions involving Mosaic's operations, including brine inflows at its Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine and other potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company reported the following notable expense items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted net earnings attributable to Mosaic
 
The Company has presented above adjusted net earnings attributable to Mosaic which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a supplemental numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Adjusted net earnings attributable to Mosaic is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, investors should consider that Mosaic's calculation may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to Mosaic provides a metric that the Company believes is helpful to investors in evaluating the Company's performance as it excludes the onetime gain from the sale of Mosaic's equity investment in Fosfertil. Adjusted net earnings attributable to Mosaic should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Potash Gross Margin, Excluding Resource Taxes and Royalties, Calculation
 
The Company's margins are further reduced by the impact of a third party tolling agreement.
The Company has presented above gross margin excluding Canadian resource taxes and royalties (CRT) for its potash segment which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a supplemental numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Gross margin excluding CRT is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, investors should consider that Mosaic's calculation may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Gross margin excluding CRT provides a measure that the Company believes enhances the reader's ability to compare the Company's gross margin with that of other companies which incur CRT expense and classify it in a manner different than the Company in their statement of earnings. Because securities analysts, investors, lenders and others use gross margin excluding CRT, the Company's management believes that Mosaic's presentation of gross margin excluding CRT for the potash segment affords them greater transparency in assessing Mosaic's financial performance against competitors. Gross margin excluding CRT, should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.


