FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20040901122055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Election of Director
 
The Board of Directors of Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") has elected Albert P.L. Stroucken to the Company's Board of Directors effective September 1, 2004. The Board of Directors has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Mr. Stroucken will be named. Mr. Stroucken's initial term will expire on the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in May 2005.
 
The press release announcing the election of Mr. Stroucken to the Company's Board is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: September 1, 2004
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., September 1, 2004  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced that Albert P.L. Stroucken has been elected to serve as a member of its board of directors. Stroucken, age 57, is currently the chairman, president and chief executive officer of H.B. Fuller Company, a St. Paul, Minn.-based manufacturer of adhesives, sealants, coatings, paints and other specialty chemical products.
 
"Al is a great addition to our board of directors, and we welcome the strong executive, operational and international experience that he brings," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., Baxter's chairman and chief executive officer. "We look forward to tapping his extensive industry knowledge, gained from nearly three decades at large global healthcare and chemicals companies, as well as the fresh perspective he will bring as we focus on driving forward the strategy and improving operations of the company."
 
Stroucken has served as president and chief executive officer of H.B. Fuller since 1998, and was elected chairman of the company's board of directors in 1999. Previously, he was general manager of the Inorganics Division of Bayer AG from 1997 to 1998, and executive vice president and president of Bayer's Industrial Chemicals Division from 1992 to 1997. Stroucken joined Bayer AG in Leverkusen, Germany in 1969. He serves on the H.B. Fuller Company Foundation board of directors, and is a member of the Twin Cities United Way board of directors.
 
BAXTER NAMES STROUCKEN TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS - PAGE 2
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists health-care professionals and their patients with treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 


