FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20041001155105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation of a Registrant.
 
On September 29, 2004, Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") entered into a five-year $800 million syndicated credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and other financial institutions named therein. The new $800 million credit facility, which terminates on September 29, 2009, replaces the Company's 364-day $760 million syndicated credit facility which terminated on September 29, 2004. In addition to the new $800 million credit facility, the Company also maintains a $640 million credit facility entered into on October 3, 2002 which expires on October 3, 2007.
 
Both the new $800 million credit facility and the $640 million credit facility enable the Company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis in United States Dollars, Euros or Swiss Francs at variable interest rates, and contain customary covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio of 55% and a minimum interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.0 to 1.0. For purposes of the maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio, both credit facilities give 70% equity credit to the Company's equity units.
 
There are no borrowings outstanding under these credit facilities.
 
Some of the lenders under these credit facilities and their affiliates have various relationships with the Company involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, investment banking, securitization, and leasing services. In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative arrangements with some of the lenders and their affiliates.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On September 28, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to the Company's Bylaws. In Article II, Section 4, the term "electronic transmission" was substituted for "telegram"; in Article IV, Sections 1 and 6, the title "Group Vice President," which is no longer used, was replaced with "Corporate Vice President"; and in Article VIII, Section 5 provisions were added to provide for electronic transmission of notice requirements and householding.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 1, 2004
 

Exhibit 3.3
 
As Amended September 28, 2004
 
 
 
. . All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the office of the Corporation in Deerfield, Illinois, or such other place as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
SECTION l
PLACE OF HOLDING MEETINGS
 
. .
SECTION 2
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 
(a) The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and the transaction of other business shall be held at such time and date as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
 
(b) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.
 
(c) In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation.
 
(d) To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Corporate Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever occurs first, and (ii) in the case of a special meeting of
provided, however
stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever occurs first.
 
(e) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Corporate Secretary must set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (C) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (D) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice (A) the name and record address of such stockholder, (B) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (C) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (D) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (E) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
 
(f) No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation, at any annual meeting of stockholders or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2. If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
. . Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or Delaware law shall, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware law otherwise provides, be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The vote for directors, and upon the demand of any stockholder, the vote upon any question before the meeting, shall be by ballot. Except for the election of directors, which shall be decided by a plurality of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereat, all matters shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at any meeting duly called and entitled to vote thereat, except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware law.
SECTION 3
VOTING
 
The Corporate Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before each meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders in either hard copy or electronic format, entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours at the office of the Corporation in Deerfield, Illinois, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
 
. Except as provided in the next section hereof, any number of stockholders together holding a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, who shall be present in person or represented by proxy at any meeting duly called, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
SECTION 4.
QUORUM
 
. . If less than a quorum shall be in attendance at any time for which the meeting shall have been called, the meeting may, after the lapse of at least half an hour, be adjourned from time to time by a majority of the stockholders present or represented and entitled to vote thereat. If notice of such adjourned meeting is sent to the stockholders entitled by statute to receive the same, and such notice contains a statement of the purpose of the meeting, that the previous meeting failed for lack of a quorum, and that under the provisions of this Section it is proposed to hold the adjourned meeting with a quorum of those present, then any number of stockholders, in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at such meeting unless otherwise provided by statute.
SECTION 5
ADJOURNMENT OF MEETINGS
 
. . Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called only (a) by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Corporate Secretary, and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Corporate Secretary upon a request in writing therefor, stating the purpose or purposes thereof, delivered to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Corporate Secretary, signed by a majority of the directors or (b) by resolution of the directors.
SECTION 6
SPECIAL MEETINGS: HOW CALLED
 
. . Written or printed notice stating the time and place of regular or special meetings of the stockholders and the general nature of the business to be considered shall be mailed by the Corporate Secretary, or such other officer as the Board of Directors may designate, to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, at least twenty (20) days but not more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting.
SECTION 7
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
 
. .
SECTION 8
CONDUCT OF THE MEETINGS
 
(a)The chairman of the meeting shall have absolute authority over matters of procedure and there shall be no appeal from the ruling of the chairman. If the chairman, in his or her absolute discretion, deems it advisable to dispense with the rules of parliamentary procedure as to any one meeting of stockholders or part thereof, the chairman shall so state and shall clearly state the rules under which the meeting or appropriate part thereof shall be conducted.
 
(b) If disorder should arise which prevents continuation of the legitimate business of the meeting, the chairman may quit the chair and announce the adjournment of the meeting; and upon his or her doing so, the meeting is immediately adjourned.
 
(c) The chairman may ask or require that anyone not a bona fide stockholder or proxy leave the meeting.
 
(d) A resolution or motion shall be considered for vote only if (i) proposed by a stockholder or duly authorized proxy, and seconded by an individual, who is a stockholder or a duly authorized proxy, other than the individual who proposed the resolution and (ii) all other requirements under law, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or otherwise, for consideration of such a resolution or motion have been duly satisfied as determined by the chairman in his or her absolute discretion, from which there shall be no appeal.
 
. .
SECTION 9
ANNUAL MEETINGS
 
(a) No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (ii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 9 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 9.
 
(b) In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation, which notice is not withdrawn by such stockholder at or prior to such annual meeting.
 
(c) To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Corporate Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever occurs first.
provided, however
 
(d) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Corporate Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the
 
annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
 
(e) No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9, , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of the annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided, however
 
 
. . No person shall be eligible for election or appointment as a director who, at the time of his election or appointment is 72 years old, or older.
SECTION 1
QUALIFICATION AND QUORUM
 
One-third of the total number of directors (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next whole number) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof need to be given other than by announcement at said meeting which shall be so adjourned. The Board of Directors may also transact business without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors consent thereto in writing.
 
. . The newly elected directors may hold their first meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business if a quorum be present, immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders; or the time and place of such meeting may be fixed by consent in writing of all the directors.
SECTION 2
FIRST MEETING
 
. . At the first meeting or at any subsequent meeting called for the purpose, the directors shall elect a Chairman of the Board from their number, and a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Corporate Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Corporate Secretary, and one or more Assistant Corporate Secretaries, who need not be directors. Such officers shall hold office until the next annual election of officers, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
SECTION 3
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
 
. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Corporate Secretary on the written request of any two directors on twenty-four (24) hours notice to each director. Such notice, which need not specify the purpose of the meeting or the matters to be considered thereat, may be given as provided in Article VIII, personally (including by telephone) or by electronic transmission or other written communication delivered to the residence or office of the director. Such personal notice or written communication shall be effective when delivered.
SECTION 4
SPECIAL MEETINGS: HOW CALLED: NOTICE
 
. The directors may hold their meetings and have one or more offices, and keep the books of the Corporation, outside the State of Delaware, at any office or offices of the Corporation, or at any place as they may from time to time by resolution determine.
SECTION 5
.
PLACE OF MEETING
 
. . The Board of Directors shall have the management of the business of the Corporation, and subject to the restrictions imposed by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, may exercise all the powers of the Corporation, including any powers incidental thereto.
SECTION 6
GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS
 
. . Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as directors, but by resolution of the Board of Directors a fixed fee may be paid together with expenses for attendance at meetings. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 7
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
 
 
. The Board of Directors shall create an an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Corporate Governance Committee, and a Public Policy Committee, and may create such other committees as the Board of Directors, from time to time, deems desirable. Each committee shall consist of three or more of the directors of the Corporation and, to the extent provided in the resolutions creating the committees or in these Bylaws, shall have the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation.
SECTION 1
 
. The Audit Committee shall consist solely of three or more directors, each of whom is qualified to serve on the Audit Committee pursuant to the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and each of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines. All members of the Committee will be financially literate, or will become financially literate within a reasonable period of time after appointment to the Committee. In addition, either (i) at least one member of the Committee must qualify as an "audit committee financial expert" under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or (ii) the Audit Committee must advise the Corporation that none of its members so qualifies.
SECTION 2
 
The primary purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. The Committee will review the Corporation's financial reporting process (including the integrity of its financial statements), system of internal control, internal and external audit process (including the qualifications, independence and performance of the independent auditor) and the process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations. The Committee will also issue the report required to be included in the Corporation's annual proxy statement pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The responsibilities and authority of the Audit Committee are set forth in detail in the Charter of the Audit Committee established by the Board of Directors.
 
. The Compensation Committee shall consist of three or more directors, all of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and any other qualification requirements specified in the Charter of the Compensation Committee established by the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee Charter").
SECTION 3
 
The Compensation Committee shall discharge the responsibilities of the Board of Directors relating to employee benefit plans and the compensation of the Corporation's executives and shall produce an annual report on executive compensation for inclusion in the Corporation's proxy statement in accordance with applicable rules and regulations. The specific responsibilities and authority of the Compensation Committee are set forth in detail in the Compensation Committee Charter.
 
. The Finance Committee shall consist of three or more directors, a majority of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
SECTION 4
 
The Finance Committee shall exercise the power and authority of the Board of Directors, and assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities, in connection with the financial affairs of the Corporation, as follows:
 
The Finance Committee shall:
 
(a) have the authority to approve, without further action by the Board of Directors: (i) financing proposals, including loans and securities offerings involving not more than $100 million, and matters relating thereto, and (ii) proposed capital expenditures, acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships, strategic alliances involving the purchase or sale of a security, and other similar transactions involving a commitment by the Corporation of more than $10 million, but not more than $50 million (including the issue of the Corporation's common stock in connection with such transactions); and
 
(b) review the following and, when appropriate, report or make recommendations to the Board of Directors: (i) annual, quarterly or extraordinary dividend proposals, (ii) financing proposals involving more than $100 million, (iii) results of the management of pension assets and the reasonableness of the major actuarial assumptions which impact the funding of the pension benefits, and (iv) proposed capital expenditures, acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships, strategic alliances involving the purchase or sale of a security, and other similar transactions involving a commitment by the Corporation of more than $50 million.
 
(c) exercise such other authority and duties as shall be assigned or granted to it from time to time by the Board of Directors or as may be further set forth in the Charter of the Finance Committee established by the Board of Directors.
 
. The Corporate Governance Committee shall consist of three or more directors, all of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and any other qualification requirements specified in the Charter of the Corporate Governance Committee established by the Board of Directors (the "Corporate Governance Committee Charter").
SECTION 5
 
The Corporate Governance Committee shall assist and advise the Board of Directors and make recommendations to the Board of Directors on corporate governance and general organization and planning matters. The Committee's responsibilities will include identifying qualified individuals to become members of the Board of Directors; selecting and recommending that the Board of Directors approve the Director nominees for the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders; determining Board committee structure and membership; and developing, renewing, revising and recommending to the Board of Directors as appropriate the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines. The specific responsibilities and authority of the Corporate Governance Committee are set forth in detail in the Corporate Governance Committee Charter.
 
. The Public Policy Committee shall consist of three or more directors of the Corporation, a majority of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
SECTION 6
 
The Public Policy Committee shall review the policies and practices of the Corporation to assure that they are consistent with the Corporation's social responsibility to act as a global corporate citizen to employees, to customers, and to society. The specific responsibilities and authority of the Public Policy Committee are set forth in detail in the Charter of the Public Policy Committee established by the Board of Directors.
 
. The following provisions shall apply to all committees of the Board of Directors:
SECTION 7
 
(a) Any power or authority granted to a committee by these Bylaws may also be exercised by the Board of Directors, subject to the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, these Bylaws, or Delaware law.
 
(b) The Board of Directors shall appoint the members and chairperson of each committee. The members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified or until the committee is dissolved by a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
 
(c) Meetings of a committee may be called by any member thereof, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Corporate Secretary, or any Assistant Corporate Secretary upon twenty-four (24) hours notice to each member stating the place, date, and hour of the meeting, which notice may be written or oral. If mailed, the notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in
 
the United States mail, addressed to the member of the committee at his or her business address, provided it is mailed four (4) days prior to the meeting. Any member of a committee may waive notice of any meeting and no notice of any meeting need be given to any member thereof who attends in person. The notice of a meeting of a committee need not state the business proposed to be transacted at the meeting.
 
(d) The lesser of a majority of the members or two members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting thereof and action of a committee must be authorized by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
 
(e) Any action that may be taken by a committee at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so to be taken, shall be signed by all of the members of a committee and filed with the minutes of the committee, which action shall be effective as of the date stated in such consent.
 
(f) Each committee shall report its actions and recommendations to the Board at the next meeting of the Board following each Committee meeting.
 
(g) The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to change the membership of a committee and to fill any vacancies in it, subject to the membership requirements of the committee. Any vacancy on a committee may be filled by a resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors.
 
(h) Any member of a committee may be removed at any time with or without cause by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors.
 
(i) The chairman of the committee shall, if present, preside at all meetings of a committee. A committee may fix its own rules of procedure which shall not be inconsistent with these Bylaws. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings.
 
(j) The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and the President shall act in an advisory capacity to all committees.
 
 
. The officers of the Corporation shall include, when and if designated by the Board of Directors, a Senior Chairman, a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Corporate Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, a Corporate Secretary, one or more Assistant Corporate Secretaries, a Treasurer, and such other officers as may from time to time be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors. Any one person may hold any number of offices of the Corporation unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law.
SECTION 1
 
. The Senior Chairman shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President, preside at all
SECTION 2
.
SENIOR CHAIRMAN
 
meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. In addition, the Senior Chairman shall advise the Chief Executive Officer and the President on matters of long and short term strategic planning, policy and other major matters affecting the Corporation and shall have such duties, authority and responsibilities as the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
 
The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall be an officer of the Corporation and, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, shall perform such executive, supervisory and management functions and duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she shall act as spokesman for the Board of Directors and as a liaison between the Board of Directors and the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall perform all other duties commonly incident to this office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time
SECTION 3.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.
 
. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have responsibility for the management of the Corporation, including the general supervision and control of all the business and affairs of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall participate in long range planning for the Corporation. He or she may sign shares of the Corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed, or which are in the ordinary course of business of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer may vote, either in person or by proxy, all the shares of the capital stock of any company which the Corporation owns or is otherwise entitled to vote at any and all meetings of the stockholders of such company and shall have the power to accept or waive notice of such meetings. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform other duties commonly incident to this office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
SECTION 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 
. . The President shall have such duties and authority as the Chief Executive Officer may determine from time to time. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall exercise all powers and discharge all of the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, including the general supervision and control of all the business and affairs of the Corporation. The President shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, preside at all meetings of stockholders and the Board of Directors. The President may sign any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed or which are in the ordinary course of business of the Corporation. The President may vote, either in person or by proxy, all the shares of the capital stock of any company which the Corporation owns or is otherwise entitled to vote at any and all meetings of the stockholders of such company and shall have the power to accept or waive notice of such meetings. The President shall perform all other duties commonly incident to this office and shall also perform such other duties and have such powers as the Chief Executive Officer shall designate from time to time.
SECTION 5
PRESIDENT
 
. . In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer and the President, the functions of the Chief Executive Officer shall be performed by the Executive Vice President who was first elected to that office and who is not then absent or disabled, or, if none, the Senior Vice President who was first elected to that office and who is not then absent or disabled, or, if none, the Corporate Vice President who was first elected to that office and who is not then absent or disabled, or, if none, the Vice President who was first elected to that office and who is not then absent or disabled. Each Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Corporate Vice President and Vice President shall have such powers and shall discharge such duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and may sign any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed or which are in the ordinary course of business. Each Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Corporate Vice President and Vice President may vote, either in person or by proxy, all the shares of the capital stock of any company which the Corporation owns or is otherwise entitled to vote at any and all meetings of the stockholders of such company and shall have the power to accept or waive notice of such meetings. Each Vice President shall perform all other duties commonly incident to this office and shall also perform such other duties and have such powers as the Chief Executive Officer or President shall designate from time to time.
SECTION 6
VICE PRESIDENT
 
. . The Corporate Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in the case of his or her absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chief Executive Officer or the directors, upon whose requisition the meeting is called as provided in these Bylaws. The Corporate Secretary shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the directors in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. The Corporate Secretary shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and attest the same. The Corporate Secretary shall have charge of the original stock books, transfer books and stock ledgers, and act as transfer agent in respect of the stock and the securities of the Corporation in the absence of designation by the Board of Directors of a corporate transfer agent, and shall perform all of the other duties incident to the office of Corporate Secretary. The Corporate Secretary may vote, either in person or by proxy, all the shares of the capital stock of any company which the Corporation owns or is otherwise entitled to vote at any and all meetings of the stockholders of such company and shall have the power to accept or waive notice of such meetings.
SECTION 7
CORPORATE SECRETARY
 
. . Each Assistant Corporate Secretary shall have such powers and perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the directors or delegated to him by the Corporate Secretary, and in the absence or inability of the Corporate Secretary to act, shall have the same general powers as the Corporate Secretary.
SECTION 8
ASSISTANT CORPORATE SECRETARY
 
. . The Treasurer shall perform such duties as shall be delegated to him by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 9
TREASURER
 
 
. . Any director, member of a committee or other officer may resign at any time. Such resignations shall be made in writing and shall take effect at the time specified therein and, if no time be specified, at the time of the receipt of such resignation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Corporate Secretary. The acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
SECTION 1
RESIGNATIONS
 
. . If the office of any member of a committee or other officer becomes vacant, the vacancy may be filled only by the remaining directors in office, although less than a quorum, who, by a majority vote, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy. Except as set forth below, any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. A person appointed to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the unexpired term and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified.
SECTION 2
FILLING OF VACANCIES
 
. . The number of directors may be increased or decreased at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors at a regular meeting or a special meeting called for that purpose. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office. These additional directors may be chosen at such meeting to hold office until the next election of the class for which such directors have been chosen and until their successors have been elected and qualified.
SECTION 3
INCREASE IN NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
 
 
. . Certificates of stock, numbered and with the seal of the Corporation affixed, signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President, and the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary, shall be issued to each stockholder certifying the number of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation. Any of or all the signatures on these certificates may be facsimile. In case any officer or transfer agent who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer or transfer agent before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer or transfer agent at the date of issue unless otherwise provided in accordance with Delaware law.
SECTION l
CERTIFICATES OF STOCK
 
. . A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the directors may, in their discretion,
SECTION 2
LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES
 
require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, in such sum as they may direct, sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
 
. . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other person as the directors may designate, by whom they shall be canceled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer, and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
SECTION 3
TRANSFER OF SHARES
 
. .
SECTION 4
DETERMINATION OF RECORD DATE
 
(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action.
 
(b) If no record date is fixed:
 
(1) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
 
(2) The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
 
(c) A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
. . Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, and Delaware law, the directors may declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend there may be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion think proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends, or for such other purposes as the directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
SECTION 5
DIVIDENDS
 
 
. . The stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of the majority of the stock issued and outstanding, or the directors by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting, may amend or alter any of these Bylaws, provided the substance of the proposed amendment shall have been stated in the notice of the meeting.
SECTION 1
AMENDMENTS OF BYLAWS
 
 
. . The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form and shall contain the name of the Corporation, and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". Said seal may be used by causing it or facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
SECTION 1
CORPORATE SEAL
 
. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
SECTION 2
FISCAL YEAR
 
. . The registered office shall be established and maintained at the office of The Corporation Trust Company, in the City of Wilmington and County of New Castle, and such company shall be the registered agent of this Corporation.
SECTION 3
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
 
. . The Corporation shall maintain such bank accounts and checks upon such accounts shall be signed and/or countersigned by such officers as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. Notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4
BANK ACCOUNTS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, NOTES
 
. . Whenever any notice is required by these Bylaws to be given, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by any of the following means:
SECTION 5
NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE
 
(a) given by depositing the same in a post office box in a sealed post paid wrapper, addressed to the person entitled thereto at his last known post office address, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day of such mailing;
 
(b) given by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the recipient has consented to receive notice; or
 
(c) given by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the recipient has consented to receive notice.
 
Without limiting the manner by which notice may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation shall be effective if given by a single written notice to stockholders who share an address if consented to by the stockholders at that address to whom such notice is given.
 
Any notice required to be given under these Bylaws may be waived by the person entitled thereto. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by statute.
 
SECTION 6.
CERTAIN PURCHASES BY THE CORPORATION OF OUTSTANDING SHARES OF ITS COMMON STOCK.
 
(a) . Except as set forth in subsection (b) of this Section 6, in addition to any vote of the Corporation's stockholders required by law, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the Voting Stock (as defined below) of the Corporation shall be required before the Corporation may purchase any outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation at a price known by the Corporation to be above Market Price (as defined below) from a person known by the Corporation to be a Selling Stockholder (as defined below). Such affirmative vote will be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or any agreement with any national securities exchange.
Vote Required for Certain Purchases
 
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 6 will not apply to:
When a Vote is Not Required.
 
(i) any purchase or other acquisition of securities made as part of a tender or exchange offer by the Corporation to purchase securities of the same class made on the same terms to all holders of such securities and complying with the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
 
(ii) any purchase or acquisition made pursuant to an open market purchase program approved by the Board of Directors; or
 
(iii) any purchase or acquisition which is approved by the vote of a majority of the directors then in office and which is made at no more than the Market Price, on the date that the understanding between the Corporation and the Selling Stockholder is reached with respect to such purchase (whether or not such purchase is made or a written agreement relating to such purchase is executed on such date), of shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation to be purchased.
 
(c) . For purposes of this Section 6, the following terms are defined as follows:
Certain Definitions
 
(i) "" means the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in elections of directors of the Corporation considered as one class.
Voting Stock
 
(ii) "" means the highest closing sale price, during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date of the making of such purchase agreement, of a share of the Common Stock of the Corporation on the Composite Tape
Market Price
 
for the New York Stock Exchange. If such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape or is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, then such price during the 30-day period on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed. If such stock is not listed on any such exchange, then the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use. If no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock.
 
(iii) "" means and includes any person (other than the Corporation, any of its Subsidiaries, any benefit plan or trust of or for the benefit of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or any trustee, agent or other representative of any of the foregoing) who or which is the beneficial owner of in the aggregate five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and who or which has purchased or agreed to purchase any of such shares within the most recent two-year period. For purposes of determining whether a person is a Selling Stockholder, the number of shares of Common Stock deemed to be outstanding and the number of shares beneficially owned by the person shall include shares respectively deemed owned through application of Article VIII, Section 6(c)(v), but shall not include any other shares of Common Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
Selling Stockholder
 
(iv) A "" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity (including, without limitation, a "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
person
 
(v) A person shall be the "" of any shares of Common Stock of the Corporation:
beneficial owner
 
(A) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as defined below) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or
 
(B) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (1) the right to acquire (whether such right is conditional or exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (2) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or
 
(C) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing thereof.
 
(vi) The terms "" and "" have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act.
Affiliate
Associate
 
(vii) "" means any corporation, at least a majority of the
Subsidiary
 
outstanding securities of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation (whether or not any other class of securities has or might have voting power by reason of the happening of a contingency) is at the time owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Corporation and/or one or more Subsidiaries.
 
(d) . Nothing contained in this Section 6 shall be construed to relieve any Selling Stockholder or any other person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
Fiduciary Duty of Selling Stockholder
 
(e) The Board of Directors of the Corporation has the power to construe and interpret this Section 6, including, without limitation, (i) whether a person is a Selling Stockholder, (ii) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (iii) whether this Section 6 is applicable to a proposed transaction, (iv) what is the Market Price and whether a price is above Market Price, and (v) when or whether a purchase or agreement to purchase any shares of Common Stock of the Corporation has occurred and when or whether a person has become a beneficial owner of any shares of Common Stock of the Corporation. Any decision or action reasonably taken by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in good faith in connection with the interpretation of this Section 6 shall not constitute a violation of and shall be deemed to be in accordance with the terms of this Section 6.
Interpretations.
 

Exhibit 10.37
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT AND SCHEDULES
 
 
 
Baxter International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement under the heading "Banks" (such financial institutions and any successor financial institution that becomes a party to this Agreement pursuant to or hereinafter referred to as the ""), JPMorgan Chase Bank (""), as administrative agent hereunder (such administrative agent and any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to hereinafter referred to as the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent (the ""), each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as co-lead arrangers hereunder (the "") and each of Citibank, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as co-documentation agents hereunder (the ""), agree as follows:
Borrower
Section 5.18
11.06
Banks
JPMorgan Chase
Section 10.06
Administrative Agent
Syndication Agent
Co-Lead Arrangers
Co-Documentation Agents
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Five-Year Credit Agreement (this ""), the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Defined Terms
Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to an Absolute Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the rate of interest per annum (rounded to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such Absolute Rate Advance.
Absolute Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as an Absolute Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each Absolute Rate Advance shall bear interest at an Absolute Rate as provided in .
Absolute Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d)
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Absolute Rates for Absolute Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
Absolute Rate Auction
Article III
 
"" means, at any time, (a) all Debt, (b) an amount equal to all cash and cash equivalent investments of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time.
Adjusted Debt
minus
 
"" means a Syndicated Advance and/or a Competitive Bid Advance, as the context requires.
Advance
 
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person.
Affiliate
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of all the Banks hereunder at such time.
Aggregate Commitments
 
"" means (i) Dollars, (ii) so long as such currencies remain Eligible Currencies, Swiss Francs and Euro, and (iii) any other Eligible Currency which the Borrower requests the Administrative Agent to include as an Agreed Currency hereunder and which is acceptable to all of the Banks. For the purposes of this definition, each of the specific currencies referred to in clause (ii), above, shall mean and be deemed to refer to the lawful currency of the jurisdiction referred to in connection with such currency, , "Swiss Francs" means the lawful currency of Switzerland.
Agreed Currencies
e.g.
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, such Bank's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, such Bank's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, such Bank's EURIBOR Lending Office in the case of a EURIBOR Rate Advance, and such Bank's Competitive Bid Lending Office in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Bank, (b) an Affiliate of a Bank or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Bank.
Approved Fund
 
"" of any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars means the Equivalent Amount of such currency with respect to such amount of Dollars on or as of such date, rounded up to the nearest amount of such currency as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time.
Approximate Equivalent Amount
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, an amount equal to (i) such Bank's Commitment at such time (ii) an amount equal to such Bank's ratable share, determined on the basis that such Bank's Commitment bears to all Commitments at such time, of the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances outstanding at such time (iii) such Bank's L/C Interest in the L/C Obligations outstanding at such time.
Available Commitment
minus
minus
 
"" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of (i) the Prime Rate and (ii) a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate 0.50%.
Base Rate
plus
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, or pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance in substitution for a Fixed Rate Advance, or pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance by a Bank funding an unreimbursed Reimbursement Obligation, and (ii) any Advance Converted into a Base Rate Advance in accordance with or . Each Base Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
Base Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 5.01
Section 4.06
Section 2.03
5.01
Section 5.07(a)
 
"" means a Syndicated Borrowing and/or a Competitive Bid Borrowing, as the context requires.
Borrowing
 
"" means a date on which an Advance is, or is proposed to be, made hereunder, or a Letter of Credit is, or is proposed to be, issued hereunder.
Borrowing Date
 
"" means (i) with respect to a Base Rate Advance or an Absolute Rate Advance or for any other purpose not relating to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, a Domestic Business Day, (ii) with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance, a Eurocurrency Business Day, and (iii) with respect to a EURIBOR Advance, a EURIBOR Business Day.
Business Day
 
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Exchange Act and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) of 30% or more of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Borrower by any Person or group.
Change of Control
 
"" means September 29, 2004.
Closing Date
 
"" means Citibank, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., in their capacities as Co-Documentation Agents.
Co-Documentation Agents
 
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, in their capacities as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
Co-Lead Arrangers
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time the amount indicated opposite such Bank's name on , as such amount may have been reduced as of or prior to such time pursuant to or modified in accordance with .
Commitment
Schedule 1.01 hereto
Section 5.05
Section 11.06
 
"" means an advance by a Bank to the Borrower pursuant to and refers to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, an Absolute Rate Advance or an advance in substitution therefor pursuant to .
Competitive Bid Advance
Article III
Section 5.01
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of Competitive Bid Advances (i) made on the same day by the Banks whose Competitive Bid Quotes in connection with a given type of auction, whether a Eurocurrency Auction, EURIBOR Auction or an Absolute Rate Auction, shall have been accepted by the Borrower in accordance with , (ii) having the same Interest Period, and (iii) being in the same currency.
Competitive Bid Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility
Section 3.01
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Competitive Bid Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative
Competitive Bid Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
Agent. Any Bank may from time to time by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent designate separate Competitive Bid Lending Offices for its Absolute Rate Advances, its Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances and its EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, in which case all references herein to the "Competitive Bid Lending Office" of such Bank shall be deemed to refer to any one or all of such offices, as the context may require.
 
"" means (i) with respect to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, a margin above or below the applicable Eurocurrency Rate which is offered for a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, expressed as a percentage (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000 of 1%) to be added to or subtracted from such Eurocurrency Rate and (ii) with respect to a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, a margin above or below the applicable EURIBOR which is offered for a EURIBOR Rate Advance, expressed as a percentage (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000 of 1%) to be added to or subtracted from such EURIBOR.
Competitive Bid Margin
 
"" means a Competitive Bid Quote substantially in the form of hereto, completed by a Bank and delivered by such Bank to the Administrative Agent in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Quote
Exhibit 3.04
Section 3.04
 
"" means a Competitive Bid Quote Request substantially in the form of hereto, completed by the Borrower and delivered by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Quote Request
Exhibit 3.02
Section 3.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in
Computation Date
Section 2.04.
 
"" refers to the full consolidation of the accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, including principles of consolidation, consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in .
Consolidated
Section 7.01(f)
 
"" means, at any time, the sum at such time of: (i) the Consolidated stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (ii) Adjusted Debt of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Capitalization
 
"" means the total amount of assets which would be included on a Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (and which shall reflect the deduction of applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom all current liabilities of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and all Intangible Assets.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
Control
 
"", "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of another Type or a continuation of Advances as the same Type for an additional Interest Period, in each case pursuant to .
Convert
Conversion
Converting
Converted
Section 2.03
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Credit Ratings
Section 5.04(a)
 
"" means long-term debt securities (without third-party credit enhancement).
Debentures
 
"" means the sum of: (i) indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services carried as indebtedness on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of such Person's business payable on terms customary in the trade), (ii) obligations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as lessee under leases that, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are recorded as capital leases, and (iii) obligations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above (other than Debt of any Subsidiary, to the extent such Debt is included in the calculation of Debt as a result of clause (i) or (ii) above) in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate and (iv) indebtedness or obligations of the kinds referred to in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) above of the Borrower's unconsolidated Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000 in the aggregate. The term "Debt" shall not include (x) any obligations of the Borrower under or in connection with: (A) that certain Facility and Guaranty Agreement dated as of April 14, 2004 among the Borrower, certain financial institutions parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as agent, (B) that certain Facility and Guaranty Agreement dated as of July 8, 2003 among the Borrower, certain financial institutions parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as agent, or (C) any similar arrangement under which the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the payment obligations of a current or former employee of the Borrower arising in connection with financing provided to such employee and relating to the Borrower's "Baxter International Inc. 1999 Shared Investment Plan", to the extent the aggregate obligations of the Borrower under the foregoing clauses (A), (B) and (C) do not exceed an amount equal to $200,000,000 and such obligations (whenever incurred) shall have arisen solely in connection with purchases by such employees of the Borrower's common stock in 1999, or (y) the undrawn face amount of any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business, but shall include the reimbursement obligation owing from time to time by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of drawings made under any letter of credit in the event reimbursement is not made immediately following the applicable drawing.
Debt
 
"" of any currency at any date means (i) the amount of such currency if such currency is Dollars or (ii) the equivalent in Dollars of the amount of such currency if such currency is any currency other than Dollars, calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent for such currency on (x) the Brussels euro-zone interbank market at 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, with respect to Euro or (y) the London interbank market at 11:00 a.m., London time, with respect to any currency other than Euro, in each case, on or as of the most recent Computation Date provided for in .
Dollar Amount
Section 2.04
 
"" and "" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means a day (other than Saturday or Sunday) of the year on which Banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City or Chicago, Illinois and are generally open for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
Domestic Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" means any currency other than Dollars (i) that is readily available, (ii) that is freely traded, (iii) in which deposits are customarily offered to banks in the Brussels euro-zone interbank market or London interbank market, as applicable, (iv) which is convertible into Dollars in the international interbank market and (v) as to which an Equivalent Amount may be readily calculated. If, after the designation by the Banks of any currency as an Agreed Currency, (x) currency control or other exchange regulations are imposed in the country in which such currency is issued with the result that different types of such currency are introduced, (y) such currency is, in the determination of the Administrative Agent, no longer readily available or freely traded or (z) in the determination of the Administrative Agent, an Equivalent Amount of such currency is not readily calculable, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Banks and the Borrower, and such currency shall no longer be an Agreed Currency until such time as all of the Banks agree to reinstate such currency as an Agreed Currency and promptly, but in any event within five Business Days of receipt of such notice from the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall repay all Loans in such affected currency or convert such Loans into Loans in Dollars or another Agreed Currency, subject to the other terms set forth in and .
Eligible Currency
Article II
Article III
 
"" means federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to the release, emission, disposal, storage and related handling of waste materials, pollutants and hazardous substances.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity interests in a Person, and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Equity Interests
 
"" of any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars at any date shall mean the equivalent in such currency of such amount of Dollars, calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent (x) at 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, with respect to Euro or (y) at 11:00 a.m., London time, with respect to any currency other than Euro, in each case, on the date on or as of which such amount is to be determined.
Equivalent Amount
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
"" means, with respect to any EURIBOR Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the interest rate per annum equal to the rate determined by the Administrative
EURIBOR
 
Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Euro appear on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the date that is two (2) TARGET Settlement Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period; , that if such rate does not appear on the Reuters Screen ERIBOR01, then EURIBOR shall be an interest rate per annum equal to the arithmetic mean determined by the Administrative Agent (rounded upwards to the nearest .01%) of the rates per annum at which deposits in Euro are offered by the three (3) leading banks in the euro-zone interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the day that is two (2) TARGET Settlement Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period to other leading banks in the euro-zone interbank market.
provided
 
"" means any EURIBOR Rate Advance or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance for any Advance in Euro.
EURIBOR Advance
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Competitive Bid Margins in relation to the applicable EURIBOR for EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
EURIBOR Auction
Article III
 
"" means, with respect to a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the EURIBOR applicable thereto and (b) the Competitive Bid Margin offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance.
EURIBOR Bid Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance shall bear interest at a EURIBOR Bid Rate as provided in .
EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d)
 
"" means any Domestic Business Day on which dealings are carried on in the Brussels euro-zone interbank market and which is a TARGET Settlement Date.
EURIBOR Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "EURIBOR Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
EURIBOR Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
EURIBOR Margin
Section 5.07(c)
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a EURIBOR Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing and (ii) any Advance converted into a EURIBOR Rate Advance in accordance with . Each EURIBOR Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
EURIBOR Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.07(c)
 
"" and/or "" means the euro referred to in Council Regulation (EC) No. 1103/97 dated June 17, 1997 passed by the Council of the European Union, or, if different, the then lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that participates in the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union.
Euro
EUR
 
"" means any Eurocurrency Rate Advance or Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance for any Advance in any Agreed Currency other than Euro.
Eurocurrency Advance
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Competitive Bid Margins in relation to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate for Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
Eurocurrency Auction
Article III
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the Eurocurrency Rate applicable thereto and (b) the Competitive Bid Margin offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance.
Eurocurrency Bid Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance shall bear interest at a Eurocurrency Bid Rate as provided in ).
Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d
 
"" means any Domestic Business Day on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Eurocurrency Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Eurocurrency Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Eurocurrency Margin
Section 5.07(b)
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance in an Agreed Currency (other than Euro) for the relevant Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in the applicable Agreed Currency as reported by any generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Eurocurrency Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period; , that, if no such British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate is available to the Administrative Agent, the applicable Eurocurrency Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which JPMorgan Chase or one of its Affiliate banks offers to place deposits in an Agreed Currency (other than Euro) with first-class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
provided
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a Eurocurrency Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, and (ii) any Advance Converted into a Eurocurrency Rate Advance in accordance with . Each Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.07(b)
 
"" of any Bank for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Rate Advance, as applicable, means the maximum reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or, if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for determining the reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement and taking into account any transitional adjustments or other scheduled changes in reserve requirements during such Interest Period) for such Bank with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Events of Default
Section 9.01
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2002 among the Borrower, the financial institutions parties thereto, certain "Co-Arrangers" and Bank One, NA, as "Administrative Agent".
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" means, at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Syndicated Advances denominated in Dollars and the Dollar Amount of all Syndicated Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars outstanding at such time, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of all Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Dollars and the Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars outstanding at such time and (iii) the aggregate amount of all L/C Obligations outstanding at such time.
Facility Usage
 
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Domestic Business Day, for the next preceding Domestic Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Domestic Business Day, the average of the quotations of such rates on such day received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
"" means the earlier to occur of (i) the initial Borrowing made by the Borrower hereunder or (ii) the initial Letter of Credit issued by an Issuing Bank hereunder.
First Borrowing
 
"" means Eurocurrency Rate Advances, EURIBOR Rate Advances or Competitive Bid Advances (excluding Competitive Bid Advances bearing interest at the Base Rate pursuant to ) or any combination of the foregoing.
Fixed Rate Advances
Section 5.01
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Governmental Acts
Section 4.09(a)
 
"" means any nation or government, any federal, state, local or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
 
"" means all assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which are treated as intangibles in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Intangible Assets
 
"" means, with respect to any period, the Consolidated interest expense of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period before the effect of interest income, as reflected on the Consolidated statements of income for the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period.
Interest Expense
 
"" means, for each Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Advance (or, in the case of any Syndicated Borrowing, on the effective date of Conversion thereof pursuant to and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be (a) in the case of a Base Rate Advance, 30, 60, 90 or 180 days, (b) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Rate Advance, one, two, three or six months, (c) in the case of a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, one, two, three or six months, and (d) in the case of an Absolute Rate Advance, a number of days not to exceed 180 days, in each case as the Borrower may select pursuant to , or , as applicable; , that:
Interest Period
Section 2.03)
Section 2.02
2.03
3.02
provided
 
(i) The duration of any Interest Period which would otherwise end after the Termination Date shall end on the Termination Date;
 
(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same day for Advances comprising the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(iii) Whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, unless, in the case of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Advance or a EURIBOR Advance, such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, in which case the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the immediately preceding Business Day; and
 
(iv) If an Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Advance or a EURIBOR Advance begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period), such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month.
 
"" means JPMorgan Chase and any other Bank which, at the Borrower's request, agrees, in such Bank's sole discretion, to become an Issuing Bank for the purpose of issuing Letters of Credit under this Agreement, and their respective successors and assigns.
Issuing Banks
 
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, a New York banking corporation having its principal office in New York, New York, in its individual capacity, and its successors.
JPMorgan Chase
 
"" means a letter of credit application and reimbursement agreement in such form as the applicable Issuing Bank may from time to time employ in the ordinary course of business.
L/C Application
 
"" means a draft drawn on an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
L/C Draft
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
L/C Interest
Section 4.05
 
"" means, without duplication, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the aggregate of the amount then available for drawing under each of the Letters of Credit, (ii) the face amount of all outstanding L/C Drafts corresponding to the Letters of Credit, which L/C Drafts have been accepted by the applicable Issuing Bank, (iii) the aggregate outstanding amount of all Reimbursement Obligations at such time and (iv) the aggregate face amount of all Letters of Credit requested by the Borrower but not yet issued (unless the request for an unissued Letter of Credit has been denied).
L/C Obligations
 
"" means any letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to .
Letter of Credit
Section 4.01
 
"" means at any time Banks having at least 51% of the then aggregate amount of the Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, holding at least 51% of the aggregate Dollar Amount of Advances and L/C Obligations then outstanding.
Majority Banks
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term under Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Margin Stock
 
"" means an amount equal to $50,000,000.
Material Default Amount
 
"" means any of (i) Baxter Healthcare Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (ii) Baxter World Trade Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or (iii) in the case of any specified condition or event, any other Subsidiary or group of other Subsidiaries (A) each of which has suffered such condition or event to occur and (B) that in the aggregate represents five percent (5%) or more of the net revenues or the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as reflected in the then most recent financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to or .
Material Subsidiary
Section 8.01(g)(i)
(ii)
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or its successor.
Moody's
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Note
Section 5.16(d)
 
"" means a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and/or a Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, as the context requires.
Notice of Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Interest Rate Election
Section 2.03
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.02
 
"" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
 
"" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase or its parent (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer), changing when and as said prime rate changes.
Prime Rate
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Receivable
Section 8.02(a)(12)
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Reimbursement Obligation
Section 4.06
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or its successor.
S&P
 
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
SEC
 
"" means the amount of Debt or other obligation or liability of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries the payment of which is secured by a Security Interest.
Secured Debt
 
"" means any lien, security interest, mortgage or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, title retention device, pledge or any other type of preferential arrangement, upon or with respect to any property of the Borrower or of any Material Subsidiary, whether now owned or hereafter acquired.
Security Interest
 
"" means any entity with respect to which the Borrower alone owns, the Borrower and one or more Subsidiaries together own, or the Borrower and any Person controlling the Borrower together own, in each such case directly or indirectly, capital stock (or the equivalent equity interest) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of such corporation (or, in the case of a partnership or joint venture, having the majority interest in the capital or profits of such entity).
Subsidiary
 
"" means an advance by a Bank to the Borrower (i) pursuant to , as the same may be converted or continued from time to time pursuant to or (ii) pursuant to . At any time, depending upon the interest rate selected therefor or otherwise applicable thereto in accordance with and , a Syndicated Advance shall be a Base Rate Advance, a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Rate Advance.
Syndicated Advance
Section 2.02
Section 2.03
Section 4.06
Section 2.03
5.01
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of Syndicated Advances of the same Type and in the same currency, made on the same day by the Banks, as the same may be converted or continued from time to time pursuant to and after giving effect to any subsequent Conversion in connection with which a single Syndicated Borrowing may have been divided into several Syndicated Borrowings or several Syndicated Borrowings may have been combined (in whole or in part) into a single Syndicated Borrowing. An Advance substituted, pursuant to , for a Syndicated Advance made in connection with any Syndicated Borrowing shall continue to comprise a part of such Syndicated Borrowing with the same effect as if such substituted Advance were an Advance of the Type requested in the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election.
Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.03
Section 5.01
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Section 2.01
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, the temporary reduction in such Bank's Available Commitment existing at such time as a result of clause (ii) of the definition of Available Commitment and, with respect to all Banks, the aggregate amount of such reductions existing at such time.
Syndicated Reduction
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as Syndication Agent.
Syndication Agent
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System (or any successor settlement system) is open.
TARGET Settlement Day
 
"" means, the earlier of (i) September 29, 2009 and (ii) the date on which the Commitments shall have been reduced to zero or terminated in whole pursuant to the terms hereof.
Termination Date
 
"" means that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of October 1, 2003 among the Borrower, certain "Banks" and "Co-Arrangers" parties thereto, and Bank One, NA, as administrative agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified.
364-Day Credit Agreement
 
"" of Advance means (i) in the case of Syndicated Advances, Eurocurrency Rate Advances, EURIBOR Rate Advances or Base Rate Advances and (ii) in the case of Competitive Bid Advances, Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances, EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances or Absolute Rate Advances or any Type of Advance described in clause (i) which shall, pursuant to , be substituted therefor.
Type
Section 5.01
 
"" means, in the case of a single employer pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, the amount, if any, by which the present value of all vested benefits accrued to the date of determination under such plan exceeds the fair market value of all assets of such plan allocable to such benefits as of such date, and, in the case of a multi-employer pension benefit plan, the withdrawal liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Unfunded Liabilities
 
SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement, when computing periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding."
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower's independent accountants or, in the case of the financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to , as determined by the Borrower to be required in accordance with then existing generally accepted accounting principles) with the December 31, 2003 audited Consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries. If any change in accounting principles from principles used in preparing such December 31, 2003 statements would have a material effect upon the results of any calculation required by or in compliance with any provision of this Agreement, then such calculation shall be made or compliance with such provision shall be determined using accounting principles in effect on December 31, 2003.
Accounting Terms and Principles
Section 8.01(g)(i)
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. . Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions provided herein, to make Syndicated Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof to the Termination Date in an aggregate Dollar Amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Bank's Available Commitment (the ""). Subject to , each Syndicated Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $25,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess thereof) (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if such Syndicated Advances are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars), shall be made on the same day from the Banks ratably according to their respective Commitments and shall consist of Syndicated Advances of the same Type. Within the limits of each Bank's Available Commitment, the Borrower may borrow Syndicated Advances under this , maintain Syndicated Advances outstanding by Converting such Syndicated Advances pursuant to , or prepay Syndicated Advances pursuant to , and reborrow Syndicated Advances under this . The Aggregate Commitments to lend hereunder shall expire on the Termination Date.
The Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Section 5.01
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.12
Section 2.01
 
SECTION 2.02. . Each Syndicated Borrowing shall be requested by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier
Making the Syndicated Advances
 
or telex notice given by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) three Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, and (ii) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances. Each notice of Syndicated Borrowing pursuant to this (a "") shall be in substantially the form of hereto, specifying the proposed Borrowing Date, Type of Syndicated Advances, aggregate amount of the proposed Syndicated Borrowing and the Interest Period and Agreed Currency applicable thereto for each such Syndicated Advance, and shall include such information as shall be required by . The Administrative Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Bank by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex of the date, applicable interest rate and aggregate amount of such Syndicated Borrowing and such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing. Each Bank, for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, shall (i) with respect to a Syndicated Borrowing denominated in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the Borrowing Date specified in the notice received from the Administrative Agent pursuant to the preceding sentence, deposit such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing in same day funds to the Administrative Agent's LS2 Incoming Clearing Account No. 4811-5286 (ABA No. 071000013) (unless another account is designated by the Administrative Agent for such purpose), Reference: Baxter International Inc., maintained at 1 Bank One Plaza, Chicago, Illinois and (ii) with respect to a Syndicated Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (local time) in the city of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office, on the Borrowing Date specified in the notice received from the Administrative Agent pursuant to the preceding sentence, deposit such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing in such funds as may then be customary for the settlement of international transactions in such Agreed Currency in the city of and at the address of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make same day funds in the amount of such funds available to the Borrower within 30 minutes of demand (which may be by telephone) by the Borrower, at the Administrative Agent's address provided in .
Section 2.02
Notice of Syndicated Borrowing
Exhibit 2.02
Section 8.01(h)
Article VI
Section 11.02
 
SECTION 2.03. . (a) The Advances included in each Syndicated Borrowing shall bear interest initially at the type of rate specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower may from time to time elect to change or continue the Interest Period for each Borrowing (subject in each case to the provisions of ), as follows:
Method of Electing Interest Rates
Article V
 
 
 
 
Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent by not later than 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least three Business Days before the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective. If the Borrower shall fail to issue a Notice of Interest Rate Election within three Business Days prior to the end of any Interest Period (unless the Borrower shall have issued a notice of prepayment in respect of the applicable Borrowing in accordance with ), the Advances comprising such Borrowing shall be, as applicable, converted into or continued as Base Rate Advances having an Interest Period of 30 days (with respect to an Advance denominated in Dollars) or shall be, as applicable, continued as a Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, in the same Agreed Currency with an Interest Period of one month (with respect to an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars). A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Borrowing; that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) the portion to which such Notice of Interest Rate Election applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each $25,000,000 or any larger multiple of $5,000,000 (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if such Syndicated Advances are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than in Dollars). Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, this Section shall not be construed to permit the Borrower to change the currency of any Borrowing.
Notice of Interest Rate Election
Section 5.12
provided
 
(b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be substantially in the form of hereto and shall specify:
Exhibit 2.03
 
 
 
 
 
Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period. Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be irrevocable when given by the Borrower.
 
(c) Upon receipt of a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower pursuant to above, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof.
subsection (a)
 
(d) Upon the occurrence, and during the continuance, of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may (and, at the direction of the Majority Banks, the Administrative Agent shall) suspend the ability of the Borrower to obtain Conversions of Syndicated Borrowings into Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, and each Conversion proposed to occur during any such period of suspension shall be a Conversion into Base Rate Advances. Such suspension shall become effective upon notice thereof to the Borrower and each of the Banks, and shall remain in effect until the Event of Default giving rise to such notice is cured or waived.
 
SECTION 2.04. . (a) The Administrative Agent will determine the Dollar Amount of:
Determination of Dollar Amounts; Required Payments; Termination
 
 
 
Each day upon or as of which the Administrative Agent determines Dollar Amounts as described in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) is herein described as a "Computation Date" with respect to each Advance for which a Dollar Amount is determined on or as of such day. If at any time the Dollar Amount of the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances (calculated, with respect to those Advances denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars, as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each such Advance) plus the stated amount of any Letters of Credit (net of any Reimbursement Obligations that shall have been converted to Syndicated Borrowings) exceeds 105% of the Aggregate Commitments, the Borrower shall immediately repay Advances (and/or cash collateralize any outstanding Letters of Credit) in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to cause the remaining outstanding Advances and stated amount of any Letters of Credit not to exceed the Aggregate Commitments.
 
(b) Any outstanding Advances and all other unpaid amounts due and payable hereunder shall be paid in full by the Borrower on the Termination Date.
 
SECTION 2.05. . The Borrower may, at its option, on one or more occasions, seek to increase the Aggregate Commitments by up to $200,000,000 up to a maximum Aggregate Commitment of $1,000,000,000 upon at least fifteen (15) Domestic Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such requested increase and shall be delivered at a time when no Event of Default (or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both) has occurred and is continuing. The Administrative
Increase in Aggregate Commitment
 
Agent, in its sole discretion will offer the increase in the Aggregate Commitments to banks or other financial institutions. No increase in the Aggregate Commitments shall become effective until (i) the existing Bank or new Bank extending such incremental commitment amount and the Borrower shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent an agreement in writing in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent pursuant to which such Bank states its Commitment and agrees to assume and accept the obligations and rights of a Bank hereunder and (ii) the Borrower has provided the Administrative Agent with such related certificates, opinions and other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. . Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions provided herein, to make available to the Borrower a competitive bid borrowing facility (the "") pursuant to which the Borrower may, from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof to the Termination Date and as otherwise set forth in this , request all of the Banks or certain Banks specified by the Borrower to offer to make Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies to the Borrower. Each Bank of which any such request shall be made may, but shall have no obligation to, make such offers and the Borrower may, but shall have no obligation to, accept any such offer in the manner set forth in this . The Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility is an entirely separate facility from the Syndicated Borrowing Facility; that at no time shall the Facility Usage exceed the Aggregate Commitments at such time. Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this , the Borrower may from time to time borrow, repay and reborrow under this .
The Competitive Bid Facility
Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility
Article III
Article III
provided
Article III
Article III
 
SECTION 3.02. . When the Borrower wishes to request offers to make Competitive Bid Advances under this , it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a Competitive Bid Quote Request by telephone (confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex so as to be received no later than (x) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least four Business Days prior to the Borrowing Date proposed therein, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or EURIBOR Auction or (y) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least one Business Day prior to the Borrowing Date proposed therein, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree), specifying:
Competitive Bid Quote Request
Article III
 
(a) the proposed Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day, for the proposed Competitive Bid Advances;
 
(b) the aggregate principal amount and currency of such Competitive Bid Advances;
 
(c) whether the Competitive Bid Quotes requested are to set forth a Competitive Bid Margin (and, if so, whether based on a Eurocurrency Rate or EURIBOR) or an Absolute Rate, or both;
 
(d) the Interest Period and Agreed Currency applicable thereto; and
 
(e) if fewer than all Banks are to be solicited, the names of the Banks to be solicited; that the Borrower shall not specify fewer than all of the Banks, and the Administrative Agent shall reject any Competitive Bid Quote Request that specifies fewer than all of the Banks, if the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances which will be outstanding after giving effect to the Competitive Bid Advances requested in such Competitive Bid Quote Request and which shall have been made in response to one or more Competitive Bid Quote Requests that specified fewer than all of the Banks exceeds $150,000,000.
provided
 
The Borrower may request offers to make Competitive Bid Advances for more than one Interest Period, but not more than eight Interest Periods, in a single Competitive Bid Quote Request. No Competitive Bid Quote Request shall be given within five Business Days (or such other number of days as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree) of any other Competitive Bid Quote Request. A Competitive Bid Quote Request that does not conform substantially to the format of hereto shall be rejected, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of such rejection by telephone, telex, or telecopy.
Exhibit 3.02
 
SECTION 3.03. . The Administrative Agent shall (a) promptly upon receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request that is not rejected pursuant to , and in any event not later than (i) 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction, and (ii) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, provide notice by telephone to each of the Banks (or, if fewer than all of the Banks shall have been specified therein, to each of the specified Banks) of the request set forth therein, and (b) promptly thereafter provide to each such Bank by telex or telecopy a copy of such Competitive Bid Quote Request or a summary of the contents thereof. If, pursuant to , the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree as to times for the delivery of a Competitive Bid Quote Request other than those set forth in , and shall notify the Banks thereof, such notice to the Banks shall set forth in addition any changes in the times set forth in this . A Competitive Bid Quote Request shall not be revocable at any time after the Administrative Agent's notice to the Banks by telephone of such Competitive Bid Quote Request.
Invitation for Competitive Bid Quotes
Section 3.02
Section 3.02
Section 3.02
Section 3.03
 
SECTION 3.04. . (a) Each Bank receiving notice of a Competitive Bid Quote Request from the Administrative Agent pursuant to may, in its sole discretion, submit a Competitive Bid Quote containing an offer or offers to make Competitive Bid Advances in response to such Competitive Bid Quote Request. Each Competitive Bid Quote must comply with the requirements of this and must be submitted to the Administrative Agent by telex or telecopy at its offices specified in or pursuant to not later than (x) 1:00 p.m. (Chicago time) at least three Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree); that Competitive Bid Quotes submitted by JPMorgan Chase may be submitted, and may only be
Submission and Contents of Competitive Bid Quotes
Section 3.03
Section 3.04
Section 11.02
provided
 
submitted, if the Administrative Agent or JPMorgan Chase notifies the Borrower of the terms of the offer or offers contained therein not later than (x) one hour prior to the time all other Banks are required hereunder to submit Competitive Bid Quotes to the Administrative Agent, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) fifteen minutes prior to the time all other Banks are required hereunder to submit Competitive Bid Quotes to the Administrative Agent, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction. Subject to and , any Competitive Bid Quote so made shall be irrevocable except with the written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
Articles VI
IX
 
(b) Each Competitive Bid Quote shall be in substantially the form of hereto and shall in any case specify:
Exhibit 3.04
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall reject any Competitive Bid Quote that:
 
 
 
 
 
If any Competitive Bid Quote shall be rejected pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall notify the relevant Bank of such rejection as soon as practical.
Section 3.04(c)
 
SECTION 3.05. . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of the terms (i) of any Competitive Bid Quote submitted by a Bank that is in accordance with and (ii) of any Competitive Bid Quote submitted by a Bank which amends, modifies or is otherwise inconsistent with a previous Competitive Bid Quote submitted by such Bank with respect to the same Competitive Bid Quote Request. Any such subsequent Competitive Bid Quote shall be disregarded by the Administrative Agent unless such subsequent Competitive Bid Quote specifically states that it is submitted solely to correct a manifest error in such former Competitive Bid Quote. The Administrative Agent's notice to the Borrower shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances for which offers have been received for each Interest Period specified in the related Competitive Bid Quote Request and the respective principal amounts and Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, so offered.
Notice to the Borrower
Section 3.04
 
SECTION 3.06. . Not later than (x) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least two Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree), the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or non-acceptance of any or all of the offers so notified to it pursuant to ; , , that the failure by the Borrower to give such notice to the Administrative Agent with respect to any such offer shall be deemed to be a rejection of such offer. In the case of acceptance, such notice (a "") shall be substantially in the form of hereto and shall specify the aggregate principal amount of offers for each Interest Period that are accepted. The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid Quote in whole or in part; that:
Acceptance and Notice by the Borrower
Section 3.05
provided
however
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
Exhibit 3.06
provided
 
(a) the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Competitive Bid Quote Request,
 
(b) acceptance of offers may only be made on the basis of ascending Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, starting with the lowest and continuing with the next lowest until offers in the aggregate amount specified by the Borrower for acceptance shall have been accepted, and
 
(c) the Borrower may not accept any offer that is described in or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of this Agreement.
Section 3.04(c)
 
SECTION 3.07. . If offers are made by two or more Banks with the same Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, for a greater aggregate principal amount than the amount in respect of which offers remain to be accepted, as specified by the Borrower, for the related Interest Period (after giving effect to the acceptance of all offers made at lower rates), the principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances in respect of which such offers are accepted shall be allocated by the Administrative Agent among such Banks as nearly as possible (in such multiples, not greater than $5,000,000 (or the Approximate Equivalent Amount if denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars), as the Administrative Agent may deem appropriate) in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of such offers. Allocations by the Administrative Agent of the amounts of Competitive Bid Advances shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
Allocation by Administrative Agent
 
SECTION 3.08. . The Administrative Agent shall (a) promptly following its receipt of a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and in any event not later than 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of its receipt of such Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, provide notice by telephone to each Bank that has made a Competitive Bid Quote of the extent to which its offer or offers have been accepted, specifying in such notice the principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance in respect of which such Competitive Bid Quote has been accepted, the Interest Period therefor and the Competitive Bid Margin or Absolute Rate therefor, as applicable and (b) promptly thereafter provide notice to such Banks by telex or telecopy confirming the same. If, pursuant to , the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree as to times for the delivery of a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing other than those set forth in , and shall notify the Banks thereof, such notice to the Banks shall set forth in addition any changes in the times set forth in this .
Notification of Acceptances to the Affected Banks
Section 3.06
Section 3.06
Section 3.08
 
SECTION 3.09. . Each Bank that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance in connection with any Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, (i) with respect to a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the first day of the Interest Period therefor specified in the notice from the Administrative Agent delivered pursuant to , deposit the amount of each of such Bank's Competitive Bid Advances in same day funds to the Administrative Agent's LS2 Incoming Clearing Account No. 4811-5286 (ABA No. 071000013), Reference: ASST (unless another account is designated by the Administrative Agent for such purpose), Reference: Baxter International Inc., maintained at 1 Bank One Plaza, Chicago, Illinois and (ii) with respect to a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (local time) in the city of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office, on the first day of the Interest Period therefor specified in the notice from the Administrative Agent delivered pursuant to , deposit the amount of each of such Bank's Competitive Bid Advances in such funds as may then be customary for the settlement of international transactions in such Agreed Currency in the city of and at the address of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make same day funds in the applicable currency or currencies and in the aggregate amount of
Funding of Competitive Bid Advances
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
Article VI
 
such Competitive Bid Advances available to the Borrower within 30 minutes of demand (which may be by telephone) by the Borrower, at the Administrative Agent's address provided in . Promptly following each Competitive Bid Advance, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Bank of the amount thereof, the consequent Syndicated Reduction and the Interest Periods for such Competitive Bid Advances.
Section 11.02
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in reliance upon the representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrower herein set forth, each Issuing Bank hereby agrees to issue for the account of the Borrower through such Issuing Bank's branches as it and the Borrower may jointly agree, one or more Letters of Credit in accordance with this , from time to time during the period commencing on the date hereof and ending no later than five (5) Business Days prior to the Termination Date.
Obligation to Issue
Article IV
 
SECTION 4.02. . No Issuing Bank shall have any obligation to and no Issuing Bank shall:
Types and Amounts
 
 
 
SECTION 4.03. . (a) In addition to being subject to the satisfaction of the conditions contained in and , the obligation of an Issuing Bank to issue any Letter of Credit is subject to the satisfaction in full of the following conditions:
Conditions
Sections 6.01
6.02
 
 
 
such Issuing Bank refrain from the issuance of Letters of Credit generally or the issuance of that Letter of Credit or shall impose upon the Issuing Bank with respect to any Letter of Credit any restriction or reserve or capital requirement (for which the Issuing Bank is not otherwise compensated) or any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable, in effect and known to the Issuing Bank as of the date of this Agreement and which the Issuing Bank in good faith deems material to it.
 
(b) No Issuing Bank shall extend, renew, or amend any Letter of Credit unless the requirements of this are met as though a new Letter of Credit were then being requested and issued.
Section 4.03
 
SECTION 4.04. . (a) Prior to the issuance of each Letter of Credit, and as a condition of such issuance, the Borrower shall deliver to the Issuing Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) an L/C Application signed by the Borrower, together with such other documents or items as may be required pursuant to the terms thereof. Unless the Issuing Bank shall otherwise agree, each Letter of Credit shall be issued no earlier than two (2) Business Days after delivery of the foregoing documents, which delivery may be by the Borrower to the Issuing Bank by facsimile transmission, telex or other electronic means followed by delivery of executed originals within five (5) days thereafter. The documents so delivered shall be in compliance with the requirements set forth in and , and shall specify therein (i) the stated amount of the Letter of Credit requested, (ii) the effective date of issuance of such requested Letter of Credit, which shall be a Business Day, (iii) the date on which such requested Letter of Credit is to expire, which shall be a Business Day not later than five (5) Business Days prior to the Termination Date and (iv) the aggregate amount of L/C Obligations which are outstanding and which will be outstanding after giving effect to the requested Letter of Credit issuance. Subject to the terms and conditions of and , and provided that the applicable conditions set forth in and shall, to the knowledge of the Issuing Bank, have been satisfied, the Issuing Bank shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with the Issuing Bank's usual and customary business practices. In addition, any amendment of an existing Letter of Credit that has the effect of increasing the face amount thereof or extending the expiration date thereof shall be deemed to be an issuance of a new Letter of Credit and shall be subject to the requirements of this .
Procedure for Issuance of Letters of Credit
Sections 4.02
4.03
Sections 4.02
4.03
Sections 6.01
6.02
Section 4.04
 
(b) The applicable Issuing Bank shall give the Administrative Agent written or telex notice, or telephonic notice confirmed promptly thereafter in writing, of the issuance of a Letter of Credit; , , that the failure to provide such notice shall not result in any liability on the part of such Issuing Bank.
provided
however
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in any L/C Application or any document executed in connection therewith to the contrary, in the event any term or provision of such L/C Application or other document is inconsistent with any term or provision of this Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control and prevail.
 
SECTION 4.05. . Unless a Bank shall have notified the Issuing Bank, prior to its issuance of a Letter of Credit, that any applicable condition precedent set forth in or had not then been satisfied, immediately upon the issuance of each other Letter of Credit hereunder, each Bank shall be deemed to have automatically, irrevocably and unconditionally purchased and received from the applicable Issuing Bank an undivided interest and participation in and to such Letter of Credit, the obligations of the Borrower in respect thereof, and the liability of such Issuing Bank thereunder (collectively, as to each Bank, an "") in an amount equal to the amount available for drawing under such Letter of Credit multiplied by such Bank's pro rata share of the Aggregate Commitments. Each Issuing Bank will notify each Bank that has a Commitment promptly upon presentation to it of an L/C Draft or upon any other draw under a Letter of Credit. On or before the Business Day on which an Issuing Bank makes payment of each such L/C Draft or, in the case of any other draw on a Letter of Credit, on demand by the Administrative Agent, each Bank shall make payment to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, in immediately available funds in an amount equal to the amount of the payment under the L/C Draft or other draw on the Letter of Credit multiplied by such Bank's pro rata share of the Aggregate Commitments. The obligation of each Bank to reimburse the Issuing Banks under this shall be unconditional, continuing, irrevocable and absolute without counterclaim or set-off; , , the obligation of each Bank shall not extend to payments made under a Letter of Credit resulting from the Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct in honoring any L/C Draft. In the event that any Bank fails to make payment to the Administrative Agent of any amount due under this , the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to receive, retain and apply against such obligation the principal and interest otherwise payable to such Bank hereunder until the Administrative Agent receives such payment from such Bank or such obligation is otherwise fully satisfied; , , that nothing contained in this sentence shall relieve such Bank of its obligation to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank for such amount in accordance with this .
Letter of Credit Participation
Section 6.01
6.02
L/C Interest
Section 4.05
provided
however
Section 4.05
provided
however
Section 4.05
 
SECTION 4.06. . The Borrower agrees unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely to pay immediately to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Banks which have Commitments, the amount of each drawing made under or pursuant to a Letter of Credit (such obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the Administrative Agent for a drawing made under a Letter of Credit being hereinafter referred to as a "" with respect to such Letter of Credit) plus all other charges and expenses with respect thereto specified in or in the applicable L/C Application. If the Borrower at any time fails to repay a Reimbursement Obligation pursuant to this , the Borrower shall be deemed to have elected to borrow under a Syndicated Borrowing, as of the date of the drawing giving rise to the Reimbursement Obligation and equal in amount to the amount of the unpaid Reimbursement Obligation. Such Syndicated Borrowing shall be made automatically, without notice and without any requirement to satisfy the conditions precedent otherwise applicable to a Syndicated Borrowing. Such Syndicated Borrowing shall be comprised of Base Rate Advances made by the Banks, each Advance being in the amount of the portion of the related drawing that shall have been funded by the applicable Bank. The proceeds of such Syndicated Borrowing shall be used to repay such Reimbursement Obligation.
Reimbursement Obligation
Reimbursement Obligation
Section 4.07
Section 4.06
 
SECTION 4.07. . In addition to the fees described in , the Borrower agrees to pay to each Issuing Bank, (i) on the date of issuance of
Issuing Bank Charges
Section 5.04(c)
 
each Letter of Credit (or on such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank), a fronting fee in respect of such Letter of Credit in an amount as shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank prior to such date of issuance, and (ii) all reasonable and customary fees and other issuance, amendment, document examination, negotiation and presentment expenses and related charges in connection with the issuance, amendment, presentation of L/C Drafts, and the like customarily charged by the Issuing Banks with respect to Letters of Credit, including, without limitation, standard commissions, payable promptly following delivery to the Borrower of each invoice in respect of any such amount.
 
SECTION 4.08. . In addition to the notices required by , each Issuing Bank shall, no later than the tenth Business Day following the last day of each month, provide to the Administrative Agent, upon the Administrative Agent's request, schedules, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, showing the date of issue, account party, amount, expiration date and the reference number of each Letter of Credit issued by it outstanding at any time during such month and the aggregate amount payable by the Borrower during such month. In addition, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of any Letter of Credit to which the Issuing Bank is party and such other documentation as may reasonably be requested by the Administrative Agent. Upon the request of any Bank, the Administrative Agent will provide to such Bank information concerning such Letters of Credit.
Issuing Bank Reporting Requirements
Section 4.04(c)
 
SECTION 4.09. . (a) In addition to amounts payable as elsewhere provided in this , the Borrower hereby agrees to protect, indemnify, pay and save harmless the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Bank from and against any and all liabilities and costs which the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or such Bank may incur or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (i) the issuance of any Letter of Credit other than as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing Bank, or (ii) the failure of the applicable Issuing Bank to honor a drawing under a Letter of Credit as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful, of any present or future or Governmental Authority (all such acts or omissions herein called "").
Indemnification; Exoneration
Article IV
de jure
de facto
Governmental Acts
 
(b) As among the Borrower, the Banks, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks, the Borrower assumes all risks of the acts and omissions of, or misuse of each Letter of Credit by, the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, neither the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank nor any Bank shall be responsible for (unless caused by its gross negligence or willful misconduct): (i) the form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effect of any document submitted by any party in connection with the application for and issuance of the Letters of Credit, even if it should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (ii) the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (iii) failure of the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit to comply duly with conditions required in order to draw upon such Letter of Credit; (iv) errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any messages, by mail, cable, telegraph, telex, or other similar form of teletransmission or
 
otherwise; (v) errors in interpretation of technical trade terms; (vi) any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under any Letter of Credit or of the proceeds thereof; (vii) the misapplication by the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit of the proceeds of any drawing under such Letter of Credit; and (viii) any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Banks, including, without limitation, any Governmental Acts. None of the above shall affect, impair, or prevent the vesting of any Issuing Bank's rights or powers under this .
Section 4.09
 
(c) In furtherance and extension and not in limitation of the specific provisions hereinabove set forth, any action taken or omitted by any Issuing Bank under or in connection with the Letters of Credit or any related certificates shall not, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, put the applicable Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent or any Bank under any resulting liability to the Borrower or relieve the Borrower of any of its obligations hereunder to any such Person.
 
(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in this shall survive the payment in full of the Advances and other obligations hereunder, the termination of the Letters of Credit and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 4.09
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. . The obligation of each Bank to extend an Advance on the date therefor is subject to the following:
Illegality; Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair
 
(a) If, after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Eurocurrency Lending Office or its EURIBOR Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Bank (or its Eurocurrency Lending Office or its EURIBOR Lending Office) to make, maintain or fund its Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, such Bank shall so notify the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and such Bank shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other Banks and the Borrower, whereupon until such Bank notifies the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such Bank to make (or to Convert other Advances into) Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, shall be suspended and each Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, which such Bank shall thereafter be required to make hereunder (or Convert into) shall be made as (or Converted into) a Base Rate Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made (or Converted) on the same day and have the same Interest Period as the Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances made (or Converted into) by the other Banks and comprising the balance of such Borrowing. If such Bank (A) shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and fund any of its outstanding Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances to maturity, (B) shall so
 
specify in a written notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (C) if at such time fewer than three Banks shall have reached a similar determination, shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent an opinion of counsel concurring in such determination, the Borrower shall immediately Convert in full the then outstanding principal amount of each such Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance into a Base Rate Advance in an equal principal amount (on which interest and principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances of the other Banks).
 
(b) If, with respect to Borrowings to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, (i) the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto) that by reason of circumstances affecting generally either the London interbank market or the Brussels euro-zone interbank market, as applicable, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the interest rate applicable to either the Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, or (ii) by the Eurocurrency Business Day or the EURIBOR Business Day, as applicable, before the first day of any Interest Period in respect of a Borrowing to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Majority Banks (or, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, Banks selected to make at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount of such Advances) that deposits in the applicable Agreed Currency are not available to such Banks (as conclusively certified in writing to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower) in the ordinary course of business in the London interbank market or the Brussels euro-zone interbank market, as applicable, in sufficient amounts to make its Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, then, in each case, the Administrative Agent shall by 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on such Business Day notify the Borrower of such event, and the right of the Borrower to select Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, for such Borrowing or any subsequent Borrowing (and the right of the Borrower to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, as applicable) shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. The obligation of the Banks to make Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, in connection with such Notice of Borrowing shall thereupon terminate, and each Bank obligated to participate in such Borrowing shall extend a Base Rate Advance to the Borrower in lieu of the originally requested Type of Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made on the date specified in the original Notice of Borrowing and shall have an Interest Period which is co-extensive with the Interest Period originally requested. In the case of an outstanding Notice of Interest Rate Election at the time any such suspension shall occur, such Notice shall be deemed amended, without any further action on the part of the Borrower, to request that the Syndicated Advances specified therein be Converted to Base Rate Advances.
 
(c) If the Majority Banks (or, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, Banks selected to make at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount of such Advances) shall, by 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the Eurocurrency Business Day or the EURIBOR Business Day, as applicable, before the first day of any Interest Period in respect of a Borrowing to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (setting forth in writing the reasons therefor) that the Eurocurrency Rate for
 
Eurocurrency Advances and/or the EURIBOR for EURIBOR Advances comprising such Borrowing will not adequately reflect the cost to such Banks of making or funding their respective Advances for such Borrowing or Conversion, the right of the Borrower to select Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, for such Borrowing or Conversion and any subsequent Borrowing or Conversion shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. The obligation of the Banks to make Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, in connection with such Notice of Borrowing shall thereupon terminate and each Bank obligated to participate in such Borrowing shall extend a Base Rate Advance to the Borrower in lieu of the originally requested Type of Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made on the date specified in the original Notice of Borrowing and shall have an Interest Period which is co-extensive with the Interest Period originally requested. In the case of an outstanding Notice of Interest Rate Election at the time any such suspension shall occur, such Notice shall be deemed amended, without any further action on the part of the Borrower, to request that the Syndicated Advances specified therein be Converted to Base Rate Advances.
 
SECTION 5.02. . (a) Subject to , each Notice of Borrowing and Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the event that a Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election is made by telephone and the written confirmation thereof differs in any respect from such telephone notice, the information contained in the telephone notice or the written confirmation, as the case may be, upon which the Administrative Agent shall have relied, as evidenced by its corresponding notice to the Banks, shall control for purposes of Advances to be made or Converted under this Agreement.
Effect of Notice of Borrowing; Maximum Number of Borrowings
Section 5.01
 
(b) A Notice of Borrowing shall be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Banks shall have no obligation to extend any Advances that may be requested in such Notice of Borrowing, if after giving effect to the Borrowing requested in such Notice of Borrowing there would then be more than fifteen Borrowings outstanding (whether Syndicated Borrowings, Competitive Bid Borrowings, or any combination of the foregoing).
 
SECTION 5.03. . (a) In the case of any Borrowing which the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Fixed Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Bank against all direct out-of-pocket losses and reasonable expenses incurred by such Bank as a result of any failure by the Borrower to fulfill on or before the date specified for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in to the extent of all direct out-of-pocket losses and reasonable expenses incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Bank to fund the Advance to be made by such Bank as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date. The Borrower shall not be liable to any Bank under this with respect to consequential damages arising or incurred by such Bank in connection with the Borrower's failure to fulfill timely the applicable conditions set forth in .
Effect of Failure to Borrow or Fund
Article VI
Section 5.03(a)
Article VI
 
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing (or, in the case of any Borrowing comprised of Base Rate
 
Advances, prior to 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the date of such Borrowing) that such Bank will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Bank's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Bank has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with the terms of or , as applicable, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 2.02
Section 3.09
 
(c) The failure of any Bank to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Bank of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make the Advance to be made by such other Bank on the date of any Borrowing.
 
SECTION 5.04. . (a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a facility fee at the respective rates per annum set forth below on the average daily amount of such Bank's Commitment. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the publicly announced ratings ("") by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Fees and Certain Credit Rating Determinations
Facility Fees
Credit Ratings
 
 
The facility fee described in this shall accrue from and including the date hereof to but excluding the Termination Date or, in the case of any Bank, the earlier date of reduction to zero of such Bank's Commitment hereunder, and shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(a)
 
(b) . For purposes of determining the applicable facility fee, utilization fee and letter of credit fees with respect to any period and the Eurocurrency Margin and EURIBOR Margin at any time:
Credit Rating Determinations
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) . In addition to the fees described in , the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a letter of credit fee, in respect of any period, at the respective rates per annum set forth below, on the average daily aggregate amount of such Bank's L/C Interest in respect of all Letters of Credit issued but undrawn during such period. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the Credit Ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Letter of Credit Fees
Section 4.07
 
 
The letter of credit fee described in this for letters of credit shall accrue from and including the date of initial issuance to but excluding the Termination Date or, in the case of any Bank, the earlier date of reduction to zero of such Bank's Commitment hereunder, and shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(c)
 
(d) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a utilization fee during each period specified below at the respective rates per annum set forth below on the sum during the applicable period of the average daily amount of such Bank's outstanding Advances and the average daily amount of such Bank's L/C Interest. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the Credit Ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Utilization Fees
 
 
The utilization fee described in this shall accrue during any period that (and only so long as) the sum of (i) the aggregate Dollar Amount of outstanding Advances and L/C Obligations under this Agreement and (ii) the aggregate Dollar Amount of outstanding "Advances" and "L/C Obligations" under (and as defined in) the Existing Credit Agreement shall exceed an amount equal to 50% of the sum of the aggregate Commitments under this Agreement and the aggregate "Commitments" under (and as defined in) the Existing Credit Agreement. The utilization fee shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(d)
 
SECTION 5.05. . The Borrower may, upon at least three (3) Business Days' written notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the respective Commitments of the Banks; that (i) any such reduction shall not cause the Aggregate Commitments to be less than the Facility Usage at such time, and (ii) in the case of any partial reduction of the Commitments, such partial reduction
Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
shall be in an aggregate amount not less than the lesser of (A) $20,000,000 (or an integral multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof) (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars) and (B) the amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceeds the Facility Usage at such time.
 
SECTION 5.06. . Each Syndicated Advance shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable, on the Termination Date. Each Competitive Bid Advance shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable, on the last day of the Interest Period therefor.
Repayment
 
SECTION 5.07. . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance made by each Bank from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full at the following rates per annum:
Interest
 
(a) . If such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the Base Rate in effect from time to time, payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of January, April, July and October and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
 
(b) . If such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Eurocurrency Margin (such rate to change when and as the Eurocurrency Margin changes), payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on the date during such Interest Period which occurs three months after the first day of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
 
"" means, at any time with respect to each Eurocurrency Rate Advance outstanding at such time (for any Advance in any Agreed Currency other than Euro), the applicable rate per annum set forth in the table below, determined in accordance with on the basis of the Credit Ratings by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures at such time:
Eurocurrency Margin
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
(c) . If such Advance is a EURIBOR Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to EURIBOR for such Interest Period the EURIBOR Margin (such rate to change when and as the EURIBOR Margin changes), payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on the date during such Interest Period which occurs three months after the first day of such Interest Period.
EURIBOR Rate Advances
plus
 
"" means, at any time with respect to each EURIBOR Rate Advance outstanding at such time (for any Advance in Euro), the applicable rate per annum set forth in the table below, determined in accordance with on the basis of the Credit Ratings by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures at such time:
EURIBOR Margin
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
(d) . Subject to , if such Advance is a Competitive Bid Advance, a rate per annum equal (i) in the case of an Absolute Rate Advance, to the Absolute Rate that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, to the Eurocurrency Bid Rate calculated on the basis of the Competitive Bid Margin that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, and (iii) in the case of a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, to the EURIBOR Bid Rate calculated on the basis of the Competitive Bid Margin that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, in each case payable on the last day of the applicable Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than 90 days or three months, as the case may be, on each day which occurs during such Interest Period every 90 days or three months, as the case may be, from the first day of such Interest Period.
Competitive Bid Advances
Section 5.01
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
 
SECTION 5.08. . The Borrower shall pay to each Bank, so long as such Bank shall be required under regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, of such Bank, from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurocurrency Rate or EURIBOR, as applicable, for such Interest Period from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing the applicable rate referred to in clause (i) above by that percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage of such Bank for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Bank and notified in writing to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent. Such determination shall be binding for all purposes in the absence of manifest error; that no challenge to such determination may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery of such notification to the Borrower.
Additional Interest on Eurocurrency Advances and EURIBOR Advances
provided
 
SECTION 5.09. . If any amount of principal is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), that amount of principal shall bear interest, from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the Base Rate in effect from time to time.
Interest on Overdue Principal
 
SECTION 5.10. . The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to (i) the Borrower and the Banks, of any applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of and the applicable interest rate under and and (ii) the Borrower and each Bank that is to make a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance in connection with any Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, of the applicable rate, if any, determined by the Administrative Agent for determining the applicable Eurocurrency Bid Rate or EURIBOR Bid Rate with respect to such Advance.
Interest Rate Determinations
Section 5.07
Section 5.07(b)
Section 5.07(c)
 
SECTION 5.11. . Each Bank shall use commercially reasonable efforts to keep apprised of all events and circumstances (a) that would excuse or prohibit such Bank from performing its obligation to make (or to Convert Advances into) Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances hereunder pursuant to or (b) that would permit such Bank to demand increased costs pursuant to . Such Bank shall, as soon as practicable after becoming aware of any such event or circumstance, use commercially reasonable efforts, to the extent permitted by law, to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances through another office or lending office, and with respect to increased costs, to reduce such increased costs (if the use of such other office or lending office or such reduction would not adversely affect the performance of such obligations or repayment of the Advances or result in any increased cost, loss, liability or other disadvantage to such Bank in such Bank's reasonable judgment), in either case if by taking the action contemplated by the foregoing, such event or circumstance would cease to exist.
Performance of Banks' Obligations
Section 5.01(a)
Section 5.13
 
SECTION 5.12. . (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, given not later than 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed date of prepayment by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex, stating in such notice the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given, the Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Syndicated Advances made as part of the same Syndicated Borrowing in whole or, in the case of a Syndicated Borrowing comprised solely of Base Rate Advances, ratably in part, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid together with accrued interest thereon and other amounts then due and owing, if any, hereunder to the date of prepayment; that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount not less than $20,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof (or the Approximate Equivalent Amount if such Syndicated Advances to be so prepaid are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars). Each such optional prepayment shall be applied to prepay ratably the Syndicated Advances of the several Banks included in such Syndicated Borrowing. If the Borrower prepays any Syndicated Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period therefor, the Borrower shall reimburse each Bank for the losses, costs and expenses contemplated in . The Borrower may not, unless otherwise required hereunder, prepay any Competitive Bid Advance without the consent of the Bank which shall have extended such Competitive Bid Advance.
Optional Prepayments
provided
Section 11.04(b)
 
(b) Upon receipt of a notice of prepayment pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's ratable share, if any, of such prepayment. In the event the Borrower and a Bank agree to the prepayment to such Bank of a Competitive Bid Advance, and such prepayment is made, the Borrower thereupon shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the other Banks thereof.
Section 5.12
 
SECTION 5.13. . Subject to , if:
Increased Costs
Section 5.11
 
(a) due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements included in the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Bank of agreeing or committing to make or making, funding or maintaining any Advances hereunder or issuing or participating in any Letters of Credit (including, without limitation any conversion of an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Euro into an Advance denominated in Euro); or
 
(b) either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law, rule, regulation or guideline adopted after the date hereof and arising out of the July 1988 report of the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards" or (ii) compliance by any Bank with any law or regulation, or with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Bank or any corporation controlling such Bank and such Bank determines that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, or upon the making or funding of its Advances hereunder or upon the issuing or maintaining of its L/C Interest hereunder (including, without limitation any conversion of an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Euro into an Advance denominated in Euro),
 
then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon 15 days' written demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Bank additional amounts sufficient to (i) in the case of any of the events described in above, reimburse such Bank for such increased cost, such increased cost to be determined by such Bank using its customary methods therefor (and, if such Bank uses from time to time more than one such method, the method chosen for application hereunder shall be that method which most accurately determines such increased cost), and (ii) in the case of any of the events described in above, compensate such Bank in light of such circumstances, to the extent such Bank reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend or maintain Advances or to issue or maintain its L/C Interests hereunder. A certificate as to any such amount (demonstrating, in reasonable detail, the calculations used by such Bank to determine such amount), submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Bank, shall be conclusive and binding for all
clause (a)
clause (b)
 
purposes in the absence of manifest error; that no challenge to such determination may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery of such notification to the Borrower.
provided
 
SECTION 5.14. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment of principal or interest in respect of any Advance or under any Notes not later than 12:00 noon (local time) on the day when due and in the currency in which such Advance was made to the Borrower, to the Administrative Agent in same day funds and without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction; all other payments hereunder or under the Notes shall be made in Dollars. All payments hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent at (except as set forth in the next sentence) the Administrative Agent's address specified in , or at any other Applicable Lending Office of the Administrative Agent specified in writing by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, and, in the case of Syndicated Borrowings, shall be applied ratably by the Administrative Agent among the Banks. All payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder in any currency other than Dollars shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its Eurocurrency Office or EURIBOR Lending Office, as applicable for such currency. The Administrative Agent is hereby authorized to charge the Borrower's account with the Administrative Agent, after notice to the Borrower of the amount to be charged, for each payment of principal, interest and fees as such payment becomes due. The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to such payment ratably (in accordance with all like obligations then due and payable to which such payment relates) to the Banks for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Bank, to such Bank for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Payments and Computations
Section 11.02
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , if, after the making of any Advance in any currency other than Dollars, currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues such currency with the result that the type of currency in which the Advance was made (the "") no longer exists or the Borrower is not able to make payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Banks in such Original Currency, then all payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder in such currency shall instead be made when due in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar Amount (as of the date of repayment) of such payment due, it being the intention of the parties hereto that the Borrower take all risks of the imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations.
Section 5.14
Original Currency
 
(c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall, to the extent such Base Rate is determined by reference to the Prime Rate, be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all other calculations of interest, facility fees, utilization fees and letter of credit fees shall be made on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes in the absence of manifest error. No challenge to any determination by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this subsection may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery to the Borrower of written notification of such determination.
 
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under any Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, facility fee or utilization fee, as the case may be. If such extension would cause such payment with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Advance to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding applicable Business Day and the period of time during which such payment would have been outstanding but for compliance with this provision shall not be included in the computation of payment of interest with respect thereto.
 
(e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Banks hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank until the date such Bank repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
 
SECTION 5.15. . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under any Notes shall be made, in accordance with , free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , (i) in the case of each Bank and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on any of its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof, and (ii) in the case of each Bank, taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Bank's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities, less the exclusions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above, being hereinafter referred to as "").
Taxes
Section 5.14
excluding
Taxes
 
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise (i) from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes to any Applicable Lending Office listed on or to any lending or other office established pursuant to or otherwise in accordance with this Agreement with respect to Advances made or to be made under this Agreement or (ii) from the execution or delivery of this Agreement or the Notes or any amendment hereto or thereto (hereinafter referred to as "").
Schedule 1.02
Section 5.11
Other Taxes
 
(c) The Borrower will indemnify each Bank and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this ) incurred by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) or any liability incurred by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) (including penalties and interest unless caused by
Section 5.15
 
the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor, which demand shall demonstrate, in reasonable detail, the circumstances concerning the imposition of, and the calculations used to determine, such Taxes or Other Taxes.
 
(d) Each Bank that is not a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) shall submit to the Borrower, on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement, duly completed and signed copies of (i) either Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Bank and entitling it to a complete exemption from withholding on all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) or Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) of the United States Internal Revenue Service and Form W-8 or W-9, as the case may be (relating to the exemption from United States federal income tax backup withholding) or (ii) if the Bank is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code and does not comply with the requirements of clause (i) above, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of (any such certificate, a "") and (y) two accurate and complete original signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto. Thereafter and from time to time, each such Bank shall submit to the Borrower such additional duly completed and signed copies of one or the other of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may be (i) requested by the Borrower from such Bank and (ii) required under then current United States law or regulations to avoid United States withholding taxes on payments in respect of all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement or the Advances. Upon the request of the Borrower, each Bank that is a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) shall submit to the Borrower promptly following the Borrower's request therefor a certificate to the effect that it is such a United States person and certification of its taxpayer identification number on Form W-9. If any Bank determines, as a result of any change in applicable law, regulation or treaty, or in any official application or interpretation thereof, that it is unable to submit to the Borrower any form or certificate that such Bank is obligated to submit pursuant to this subsection, or that such Bank is required to withdraw or cancel any such form or certificate previously submitted, such Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such fact; , , that delivery of such notice shall not preclude the exercise by such Bank of any of its rights under this . No amount that shall be required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to , or of this shall be payable by the Borrower to any Bank that (i) is not, on the date this Agreement is executed by such Bank, either (x) required to submit Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Bank and entitling it to a complete exemption from withholding on all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) or Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) and a Section 5.15(d)(ii) Certificate, as the
Code
Exhibit 5.15(d)
Section 5.15(d)(ii) Certificate
provided
however
Section 5.15
subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
Section 5.15
 
case may be, or (y) a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code), or (ii) shall have failed to submit to the Borrower any form or certificate that such Bank shall have been required to file pursuant to this subsection and shall have been entitled to file under applicable law.
 
SECTION 5.16. . (a) Each Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from each Advance made by such Bank from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank from time hereunder.
Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness
 
(b) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Advance made hereunder, the currency in which such Advance is denominated and Type thereof and the Interest Period with respect thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Bank hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Bank's share thereof.
 
(c) The entries maintained in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the Advances therein recorded; , that the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Bank to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Borrowings in accordance with their terms.
prima
facie
provided
,
however
 
(d) Any Bank may request that its Advances be evidenced by a promissory note (each a ""). In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Bank a Note or separate Notes evidencing such Syndicated Advances and Competitive Bid Advances, at such Bank's request, payable to the order of such Bank in a form or forms supplied by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Advances evidenced by such Note or Notes and interest thereon shall at all times (including after any assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein or any assignee pursuant to , except to the extent that any such Bank or assignee subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation and requests that such Advances once again be evidenced as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Note
Section 11.06
Section 11.06
 
SECTION 5.17. . If any Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of any Advance made by it or any L/C Interest in excess of its ratable share of all payments obtained by Banks on account of, as applicable, the Advances comprising the Borrowing (whether the Borrowing to which it shall be applied is a Syndicated Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing) to which such Advance relates or in respect of the Letter of Credit to which such L/C Interest relates, such Bank shall forthwith purchase from the other Banks which shall then have Advances outstanding comprising a part of such Borrowing participations in the Advances comprising a part of such Borrowing (or, as applicable, purchase from the other Banks participations in the L/C Interests in the related Letter of Credit) as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank to share the excess payment (net of any expenses which may be incurred by such Bank in obtaining or preserving such excess payment) ratably with respect to
Sharing of Payments, Etc
 
such Borrowing or Letter of Credit with each of such other Banks. If all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Bank, such purchase from each selling Bank shall be rescinded and such selling Bank shall repay to the purchasing Bank the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such selling Bank's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such selling Bank's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Bank so purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Bank were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. Nothing contained herein shall require any Bank to exercise any right it may have of set-off, bankers' lien, counterclaim or similar right or shall affect the right of any Bank to exercise, and retain the benefits of exercising, any such right with respect to any other indebtedness or obligation of the Borrower not evidenced by this Agreement or the Notes. If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, any Bank obtains a secured claim in lieu of a set-off or other payment to which this would apply, such Bank shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the Banks entitled under this to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim.
Section 5.17
Section 5.17
Section 5.17
 
SECTION 5.18. . (a) In addition to the right of the Borrower to terminate in whole or reduce ratably the unused portion of the Commitments as described in and the right of the Borrower to ratably prepay Advances as described in , the Borrower shall have the right to terminate the unused portion of the Commitment of any Bank and to prepay all outstanding Advances made by such Bank in the manner described in this if the Borrower shall have received notice (a "") that such Bank (i) cannot extend a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and/or EURIBOR Rate Advance and shall exercise its rights pursuant to , (ii) claims reimbursement for increased costs or reduced returns pursuant to or (iii) claims reimbursement for Taxes or Other Taxes pursuant to .
Termination and Prepayment with Respect to any Bank
Section 5.05
Section 5.12
Section 5.18
Special Notice
Section 5.01(a)
Section 5.13
Section 5.15
 
(b) Upon receipt by the Borrower of a Special Notice from any Bank, the Borrower may elect to terminate the unused portion of the Commitment of such Bank by giving notice thereof (a "") to such Bank and to the Administrative Agent on or before the thirtieth day following the date of such Special Notice, specifying therein (i) the name of such Bank (""), (ii) the proposed effective date of termination ("") of the unused portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment, which date shall not in any event be less than five Business Days following the date of such Termination Notice, (iii) one or more commercial banks (each, a ""), each such Successor Bank having a combined capital, surplus (or its equivalent) and undivided profits in an amount not less than U.S. $500,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency), which Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have agreed, in the aggregate, to succeed to the entire Commitment of such Terminated Bank on the Bank Termination Date.
Termination Notice
Terminated Bank
Bank Termination Date
Successor Bank
 
(c) Unless the Borrower shall have elected, as evidenced by its Termination Notice, to prepay all the Advances made by a Terminated Bank outstanding as of the Bank
 
Termination Date, any Advance (each a "") made by such Terminated Bank having an Interest Period ending after the Bank Termination Date shall remain outstanding until the last day of such Interest Period (unless required to be paid earlier in accordance with the terms of this Agreement). On the last day of the then current Interest Period in respect of each TB Advance, the Successor Bank shall extend an Advance to the Borrower in a principal amount corresponding to such TB Advance, and having an Interest Period of the type specified in the Notice of Interest Rate Election that would otherwise have applied to such TB Advance, and the proceeds of such Advance from the Successor Bank shall be used by the Borrower to repay such TB Advance to the Terminated Bank. The Successor Bank or Successor Banks specified by the Borrower in a Termination Notice shall have agreed, prior to the Bank Termination Date, to succeed, in the aggregate, to the entire Commitment of such Terminated Bank on the Bank Termination Date which succession shall, with respect to the unused portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment as of such Bank Termination Date, become effective as of the Bank Termination Date and, with respect to the remaining portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment, become effective as and when such Terminated Bank's Advances are repaid.
TB Advance
 
(d) If the Borrower shall have elected, as evidenced by its Termination Notice, to prepay all the Advances made by a Terminated Bank outstanding as of the Bank Termination Date, the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall in the aggregate extend to the Borrower, on the Bank Termination Date, Advances (with interest at a rate to be agreed upon by the Borrower and each Successor Bank) corresponding in respective amounts to each Advance being prepaid as of such date, each of which Advances shall have an Interest Period beginning on the Bank Termination Date and ending on the last day of the Interest Period of the Advance being prepaid to which it corresponds; that, upon the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) and notice thereof to the Administrative Agent, the Borrower may elect not to require the Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) to extend Competitive Bid Advances in substitution for the Competitive Bid Advances extended by the Terminated Bank.
provided
 
(e) Each such termination pursuant to this shall be effective on the Bank Termination Date proposed by the Borrower in the related Termination Notice if (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred prior to such date and be continuing on such date, (ii) in the event the Borrower shall have elected to prepay all Advances made by such Terminated Bank outstanding as of such date, (A) the Borrower shall have prepaid the outstanding aggregate amount of all Advances made by the Terminated Bank, together with accrued interest to such date on the amount prepaid and all other amounts payable to such Bank as of such date and (B) the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have extended to the Borrower Advances equal in aggregate amount to the Advances of the Terminated Bank being prepaid as required pursuant to , and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have agreed in the aggregate to succeed to the entire Commitment of the Terminated Bank in accordance with this . On a Bank Termination Date, the applicable Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) shall succeed to the L/C Interests of the Terminated Bank, and the Terminated Bank shall thereafter cease to have any L/C Interest or any participation in, or liability for any drawings made under, any Letter of Credit.
Section 5.18
Section 5.18(d)
Section 5.18
 
(f) Subject to above, on the Bank Termination Date, (i) each Successor Bank shall become a party to this Agreement as if such Successor Bank shall have been named on the signature pages hereof, and such Successor Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of a "Bank" hereunder and (ii) the Terminated Bank shall have no further Commitment under this Agreement (other than with respect to Advances, if any, made by such Bank which remain outstanding after such date) and shall no longer be a "Bank" under this Agreement for any purpose (other than with respect to Advances made by such Bank which remain outstanding after such date) except insofar as it shall be entitled to any payment or indemnification, or be obligated to make any indemnification, on account of any event which shall have occurred, or any right or liability which shall have arisen, on or prior to the date of repayment of such outstanding Advances. The termination of any Bank's Commitment and the prepayment of such Bank's Advances pursuant to this shall not relieve or satisfy the obligations of the Borrower to make any such prepayments free and clear of all Taxes, to reimburse such Bank for all Other Taxes and for all increased costs pursuant to , or to comply with all other terms and conditions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, ). A Successor Bank shall be subject to the Syndicated Reduction (or, in the case of more than one Successor Bank, its ratable share of the Syndicated Reduction) of the Terminated Bank it succeeds upon the Bank Termination Date applicable to such successor.
subsection (e)
Section 5.18
Section 5.13
Section 11.04
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. . The obligation of each Bank to make its initial Advance or for an Issuing Bank to issue the initial Letter of Credit hereunder (whichever shall first be requested by the Borrower) is subject to the condition precedent that the Administrative Agent shall have received all of the following, each of which shall be dated the date of such First Borrowing and shall be in sufficient copies for each Bank:
Conditions Precedent to the First Borrowing
 
(a) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and any Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action with respect to this Agreement and any Notes.
 
(b) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and any Notes and the other documents or certificates to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(c) A certificate, signed by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, stating that as of the date thereof all conditions to the First Borrowing have been satisfied and that no Event of Default or event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
(d) A favorable opinion of (i) the General Counsel of the Borrower, and (ii) Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP, special counsel to the Borrower, or other counsel to the Borrower (who also may be an employee of the Borrower) acceptable to the Administrative
 
Agent, in its reasonable judgment, each opinion to be substantially in the respective form set forth in hereto, and additional opinions (which, to the extent such opinions do not pertain to the legality, validity or enforceability of the Borrower's performance under this Agreement, need not be favorable) as to such other matters concerning the Borrower's legal affairs as any Bank through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Exhibit 6.01(d)
 
SECTION 6.02. . The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing (including the First Borrowing) or for any Issuing Bank to issue any Letter of Credit shall be subject to the additional conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing or issuance of such Letter of Credit (a) immediately before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of proceeds therefrom, or (as applicable) immediately before and after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing, or (as applicable) the submission of a request for issuance of a Letter of Credit, shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing or such issuance, immediately before and after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds therefrom (in the case of a Borrowing), such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing
 
 
 
 
and (b) the Administrative Agent shall have received (x) additional opinions (which, to the extent such opinions do not pertain to the legality, validity or enforceability of the Borrower's performance under this Agreement, need not be favorable) of counsel to the Borrower and copies of documents and approvals the existence of which would form a necessary basis for any statement made in any certificate or opinion required to be delivered hereunder by the Borrower and (y) such other available information, in all cases concerning the business and financial condition of the Borrower, as any Bank through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
 
SECTION 6.03. . The Borrower hereby terminates the commitments of all of the lenders under the 364-Day Credit Agreement and represents to the Administrative Agent and the Banks that all outstanding obligations, if any, under the 364-Day Credit Agreement have been repaid in full. Each of the Banks party to this Agreement which is also a lender or, with respect to Bank One, NA, the administrative agent and a lender, under the 364-Day Credit Agreement hereby agrees that, for
Condition Precedent to Effectiveness of this Agreement
 
purposes of the 364-Day Credit Agreement, the termination set forth in the preceding sentence is sufficient to terminate the obligations of the Borrower under the 364-Day Credit Agreement and hereby waives receipt of any additional written notice of termination of the 364-Day Credit Agreement. Each of the Banks party to this Agreement which is also a lender or, with respect to Bank One, NA, the administrative agent and a lender, under the 364-Day Credit Agreement further waives any notice period set forth in the 364-Day Credit Agreement with respect to the termination of all commitments described in the preceding sentences.
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a) . The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which the failure so to qualify would have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, assets, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower.
Corporate Existence and Standing
 
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) any law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
Authorization; No Violation
 
(c) . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or any Notes.
Governmental Consents
 
(d) . This Agreement is, and any Notes when delivered will be, the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Validity
 
(e) . There is no pending or, to the best of the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened action or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator, which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note.
Litigation
 
(f) . The Consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003 and the related Consolidated statements of income and stockholder's equity for the period then ended of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as amended by the Form 10-K/A and the Form 10-Q/A most recently filed by the Borrower with
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Change
 
the SEC as of the date of this Agreement, copies of which have been furnished to each Bank, present fairly the financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and the results of the operations and changes in financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year. The Consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2004 and the related Consolidated statements of income and stockholder's equity for the two quarters then ended of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, copies of which have been furnished to each Bank, present fairly the financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at June 30, 2004 and the results of the operations and changes in financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the two quarters then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since December 31, 2003, there has been no material adverse change in such financial position or operations.
 
(g) . The Borrower is not (i) an "investment company," (ii) a company "controlled" by an "investment company" which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (iii) to the best knowledge of the Borrower, a company "controlled" by any other "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
 
(h) . Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged in the business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock. The value of the Margin Stock owned directly or indirectly by the Borrower or any Subsidiary which is subject to any arrangement (as such term is used in Section 221.2(g) of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) hereunder is less than an amount equal to 25% of the value of all assets of the Borrower and/or such Subsidiary subject to such arrangement.
Regulation U
 
(i) . The operations of the Borrower and each Material Subsidiary comply in all material respects with all Environmental Laws, the noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the business of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms.
Environmental Matters
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any L/C Obligations shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants of the Borrower
 
(a) . Pay and discharge, and cause each Material Subsidiary to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income, profit or property, and (ii) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any Material Subsidiary shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and with respect to which the Borrower shall have established appropriate reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
(b) . Maintain, and cause each Material Subsidiary to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by (or, as applicable, self-insure in a manner and to an extent not inconsistent with conventions observed by) companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary operates.
Maintenance of Insurance
 
(c) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each Material Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory), and franchises, except as otherwise permitted by .
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
Section 8.02(c)
 
(d) . Comply, and cause each Material Subsidiary to comply, with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, all Environmental Laws), noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the business of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
 
(e) . Keep, and cause each Material Subsidiary to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each Material Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
Keeping of Books
 
(f) . Permit, and cause each Material Subsidiary to permit, the Administrative Agent, and its representatives and agents, to inspect any of the properties, corporate books and financial records of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries, to examine and make copies of the books of account and other financial records of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries with, and to be advised as to the same by, their respective officers or directors, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and intervals as the Administrative Agent may reasonably designate.
Inspection
 
(g) . Furnish to the Administrative Agent in sufficient copies for distribution to each Bank:
Reporting Requirements
 
 
ending with the end of such quarter, certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower; , , that at any time the Borrower shall be subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, delivery within the time period specified above of copies of the quarterly balance sheets and statements on Form 10-Q of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such quarterly period as filed with the SEC shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this clause (i);
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(h) . Use the proceeds of Borrowings made under or Letters of Credit issued in accordance with this Agreement for general corporate purposes not in violation of any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "")). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower may use the credit facilities provided by
Use of Proceeds
Margin Regulations
 
this Agreement in support of its commercial paper program. With respect to any Borrowing the proceeds of which shall be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock, the Borrower shall include in the Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing such information as shall enable the Banks and the Borrower to comply with the Margin Regulations.
 
(i) . Maintain a ratio of (i) the sum of Consolidated income before income tax expense (excluding extraordinary gains and losses) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries plus Interest Expense of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower with respect to the four-quarter period then ended, to (ii) Interest Expense for such four-quarter period then ended of not less than 2.0 to 1.0.
Interest Expense Coverage Ratio
 
SECTION 8.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any L/C Obligations shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants of the Borrower
 
(a) . Suffer to exist, create, assume or incur, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to suffer to exist, create, assume or incur, any Security Interest, or assign, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, in each case to secure Debt or any other obligation or liability, other than:
Liens, Etc
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case with any collections and other proceeds thereof and any collateral, guaranties or other property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting or securing payment by the obligor thereon of any such Receivables), in each case whether such sale, assignment or other transfer constitutes a "true sale" or a secured financing for accounting, tax or any other purpose; that either (i) such sale, assignment or other transfer shall have been made as part of a sale of the business out of which the applicable Receivables arose, (ii) such sale, assignment or other transfer is made in the ordinary course of business and is for the purpose of collection only, (iii) such sale, assignment or other transfer is made in connection with an agreement on the part of the assignee thereof to render performance under the contract that has given rise to such Receivable, or (iv) in all other cases, the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held at any time by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) such Receivables (as determined by the Borrower using any reasonable methods) shall not exceed an amount equal to 10% of the Consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time.
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries may, at any time, suffer to exist, issue, incur, assume and guarantee Secured Debt (in addition to Secured Debt permitted to be secured under the foregoing through ), that the aggregate amount of such Secured Debt, together with the aggregate amount of all other Secured Debt (not including Secured Debt permitted to be secured under the foregoing through ) of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries which is suffered to exist, issued, incurred, assumed or guaranteed after the date hereof, does not at such time exceed 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 8.02(a)
paragraphs (i)
(xvii)
provided
paragraphs (i)
(xvii)
 
(b) . Permit (i) Consolidated Adjusted Debt (which for purposes of this clause (i) only shall exclude, up to and until February 16, 2006, an amount equal to seventy percent (70%) of the aggregate amount of senior notes due February 16, 2008 issued by the Borrower on December 17, 2002, but only to the extent such amount shall be treated as "debt" for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at any time (ii) an amount equal to 55% of Consolidated Capitalization at such time.
Limitation on Debt
to exceed
 
(c) .
Merger, Etc
 
 
U.S. Corporation; , in each case described in clause (A) and (B) above, that (x) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no event shall have occurred and be continuing which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an Event of Default and (y) in the case of any merger or consolidation to which the Borrower shall be a party, the survivor of such merger or consolidation shall be the Borrower.
provided
 
 
For purposes of this : "" means, when referring to the Borrower, the conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole and means, when referring to a Subsidiary, the conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary; and "" means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
Section 8.02(c)
Transfer Assets
U.S. Corporation
 
 
SECTION 9.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a) The Borrower shall fail to (i) pay any installment of interest on any Advance or any facility fee payable under , any utilization fee payable under or any letter of credit fee payable under or , in each case when due and such default continues for five days, or (ii) pay any amount of principal of any Advance when due; or
Section 5.04(a)
Section 5.04(d)
Section 4.07
Section 5.04(c)
 
(b) Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement, any Advance or Letter of Credit shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
 
(c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or of this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed and such failure shall remain unremedied on the earlier to occur of (i) or (ii): (i) the date 30 days after the Borrower shall have become aware of such failure or (ii) the date that financial statements of the Borrower shall be available from which it may be ascertained that such failure to perform or observe such term, covenant or agreement shall have
Section 8.01(i)
8.02(a)
8.02(b)
 
occurred. For purposes of clause (ii) above, the date that any financial statements shall be deemed available shall be the date on which the Borrower shall file (or, if earlier, the date the Borrower shall have been required to file) such financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of any report required to be filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or
 
(d) The Borrower shall (i) fail to perform or observe, or shall breach, any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed (other than those failures or breaches referred to in , , , or of this ) and any such failure or breach shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of any Bank; (ii) fail to perform or observe ; or (iii) fail to perform or observe and such failure shall remain unremedied for 15 days after the occurrence thereof; or
subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)(ii)
(d)(iii)
Section 9.01
Section 8.02(c)
Section 8.01(g)(vii)
 
(e) The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to pay any amount of principal of, interest on or premium with respect to, any Debt (other than that evidenced by this Agreement) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary when due (whether at scheduled maturity or by required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise) which Debt is outstanding under one or more instruments or agreements in an aggregate principal amount not less than the Material Default Amount and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist after the applicable grace period specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a scheduled prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(f) The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debt under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property; or the Borrower or any such Material Subsidiary shall take corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this ; that, in the case of any such proceeding filed or commenced against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary, such event shall not constitute an "Event of Default" hereunder unless either (i) the same shall have remained undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, (ii) an order for relief shall have been entered against the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect or (iii) the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary shall have taken corporate action consenting to, approving or acquiescing in the commencement or maintenance of such proceeding; or
subsection (f)
provided
 
(g) Any judgment or order for the payment of money shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary and (i) either (A) enforcement proceedings shall have
 
been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (B) there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days, in the case of a judgment or order rendered or entered by a court located in the United States, its territories and Puerto Rico, or 30 consecutive days, in the case of any other court, during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect, and (ii) the amount of such judgment or order, when aggregated with the amount of all other such judgments and orders described in this , shall exceed the Material Default Amount; or
subsection (g)
 
(h) Either (i) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation shall terminate any single-employer plan (as defined in Section 4001(b)(2) of ERISA) that provides benefits for employees of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary and such plan shall have an Unfunded Liability in an amount in excess of the Material Default Amount at such time or (ii) withdrawal liability shall be assessed against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in connection with any multiemployer plan (whether under Section 4203 or Section 4205 of ERISA) and such withdrawal liability shall be an amount in excess of the Material Default Amount; or
 
(i) A Change of Control shall occur;
 
then, in any such event but subject to the next sentence, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Banks, by notice to the Borrower, (i) declare the obligation of each Bank to make Advances and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, (ii) declare the entire unpaid principal amount of the Advances, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement (including Reimbursement Obligations) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such accrued interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , that in the case of any Competitive Bid Advance, the unpaid principal amount thereof, and all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, shall not be declared to be due and payable pursuant to the foregoing without the consent of the Bank to which such Competitive Bid Advance is owing and (iii) demand delivery of, and promptly following such demand the Borrower shall deliver and pledge to the Administrative Agent (or another Bank selected by the Borrower) for the benefit of the Banks, cash or other collateral of a type satisfactory to the Majority Banks and having a value, as determined by the Administrative Agent, equal to the aggregate undrawn face amount of the Letters of Credit then outstanding and all fees and other amounts then due. In the event of the occurrence of an Event of Default under , (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts (including Reimbursement Obligations) shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
clause (ii)
Section 9.01(f)
 
SECTION 9.02. . Any cash collateral delivered pursuant to in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit shall be held by the Administrative Agent or the applicable Bank in a separate interest-bearing account appropriately designated as a cash collateral account in relation to this Agreement and the Letters of Credit and retained by and under the control of the Administrative Agent or the applicable Bank for the benefit of all of the
Cash Collateral
Section 9.01
 
Banks and the Issuing Banks as collateral security for the Borrower's obligations in respect of this Agreement and each of the Letters of Credit. Amounts held in such account shall be applied on the direction of the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Banks for drawings or payments under or pursuant to Letters of Credit, or if no such reimbursement is required, to payment of such of the other obligations due and owing hereunder as the Administrative Agent shall determine. If no Event of Default shall be continuing, amounts remaining in any cash collateral account established pursuant to this which are not to be applied to reimburse an Issuing Bank for amounts actually paid or to be paid by such Issuing Bank in respect of a Letter of Credit or to payment of such of the other obligations due and owing hereunder, shall be promptly returned to the Borrower upon the Borrower's request therefor.
Section 9.02
 
 
SECTION 10.01. . Each Bank hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Banks and such instructions shall be binding upon all Banks and all holders of Notes. The Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes it to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law.
Authorization and Action
 
SECTION 10.02. . Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) the Administrative Agent may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof unless and until the Administrative Agent receives written notice of the assignment thereof signed by such payee and the Administrative Agent receives the written agreement of the assignee that such assignee is bound hereby as it would have been if it had been an original Bank party hereto, in each case in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (ii) the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts, and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telegram, cable or telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties or by acting upon any representation or warranty of the Borrower made or deemed to be made hereunder. Further, the Administrative Agent (A) makes no warranty or representation to any Bank and shall not be responsible to any Bank for the accuracy or completeness of any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement, (B) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and
Duties and Obligations
 
records) of the Borrower, and (C) shall not be responsible to any Bank for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto.
 
SECTION 10.03. . With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it and the Notes issued to it, the Administrative Agent, in its separate capacity as a Bank, shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent; and the term "Bank" or "Banks" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include the Administrative Agent in its separate capacity as a Bank. The Administrative Agent, in its separate capacity as a Bank, and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, participate in Letters of Credit issued to and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Subsidiary and any Person which may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, all as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Banks.
Administrative Agent and Affiliates
 
SECTION 10.04. . Each Bank agrees that it has itself been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal of and investigations into the financial condition, creditworthiness, condition, affairs, status and nature of the Borrower. Accordingly, each Bank confirms to the Administrative Agent that such Bank has not relied, and will not hereafter rely, on the Administrative Agent, or any other Bank, (i) to check or inquire on its behalf into the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information provided by the Borrower under or in connection with this Agreement or the transactions herein contemplated (whether or not such information has been or is hereafter distributed to such Bank by the Administrative Agent), (ii) to assess or keep under review on its behalf the financial condition, creditworthiness, condition, affairs, status or nature of the Borrower or (iii) in entering into this Agreement or in making its own credit decisions with respect to the taking or not taking of any action under this Agreement.
Bank Credit Decision
 
SECTION 10.05. . The Banks agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Commitments then held by each of them (or if the Commitments have at the time been terminated, ratably according to the respective Dollar Amounts of their Advances then outstanding), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, that no Bank shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Bank agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, the administration, modification or amendment of this Agreement or preservation of any rights of the Administrative Agent or the Banks under, or the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.
Indemnification
provided
 
SECTION 10.06. . The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Banks and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Banks. Upon any such resignation or removal of the Administrative Agent, the Majority Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent to assume the position as Administrative Agent of the retiring Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Banks, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Majority Banks' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be either a Bank hereunder or a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. The Borrower shall have the right to approve any successor Administrative Agent, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld (in all such cases the Borrower shall be entitled to take into account its past and then existing commercial banking relationships, among other things); that, if an Event of Default shall have occurred, such right of the Borrower to approve the successor Administrative Agent shall be suspended during the continuance of such Event of Default. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement.
Successor Administrative Agent
provided
Article X
 
SECTION 10.07. . None of the Banks identified on the cover page or signature pages of this Agreement as the "Syndication Agent" or "Co-Lead Arrangers" or "Co-Documentation Agents" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Banks as such. Each Bank acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any of the Banks identified as Syndication Agent, Co-Lead Arrangers or Co-Documentation Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or refraining from taking any action hereunder or pursuant hereto.
Syndication Agent, Co-Lead Arrangers and Co-Documentation Agents
 
 
SECTION 11.01. . Subject to the next four sentences, no amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Banks, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. No amendment or waiver of of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall
Amendments, Etc
Section 8.02(a)
 
in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by Banks having at least 66
 2
/
3
% of the then aggregate amount of the Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, holding at least 66
 2
/
3
% of the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. No amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Banks, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in , (b) change the Commitments of the Banks or subject the Banks to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any facility fees or other amount payable hereunder, (d) change any date fixed for any payment in respect of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any facility fees or other amount payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Banks, which shall be required for the Banks or any of them to take any action hereunder, or amend the definition herein of "Majority Banks," or (f) amend this ; , no such amendment, waiver or consent shall, without the consent of each Issuing Bank, amend, modify or waive any provision of or alter any rights or obligations with respect to any Letter of Credit. No amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Banks required hereinabove to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the actions contemplated by shall not be subject to the consent of the Banks, except as otherwise expressly provided in such Section.
Article VI
Section 11.01
provided
Article IV
Section 2.05
 
SECTION 11.02. . All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including by telex, telegram or telecopier) and mailed or sent or delivered, if to the Borrower, at the address set forth for the Borrower on the signature pages hereof; if from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Bank, to the Administrative Agent at the address set forth for the Administrative Agent on the signature pages hereof; if from the Administrative Agent to any Bank, at the address of such Bank's Domestic Lending Office; or, in any case, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto (except in the case of the Borrower, as to which a change of address may be made by notice to the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Banks and except in the case of any Bank, as to which a change of address may be made by notice to the Administrative Agent). Subject to the next sentence, all such notices and communications shall be effective, in the case of written notice, when deposited in the mails, air mail, postage prepaid, and, in the case of notice by telex, telecopy, telegram or cable, when sent addressed as set forth above. All notices and communications pursuant to , , and shall not be effective until they are received by the addressee. The Administrative Agent agrees to deliver promptly to each Bank copies of each report, document, certificate, notice and request, or summaries thereof, which the Borrower is required to, and does in fact, deliver to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including, without limitation, copies of the reports to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to . The Administrative Agent shall notify each of the Banks when all of the documents required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to shall have been received by the Administrative Agent.
Notices, Etc
Articles II
III
IX
X
Section 8.01(g)
Section 6.01
 
SECTION 11.03. . No failure on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Bank to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver hereof, nor shall any single or partial
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
 
SECTION 11.04. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes, if any, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of one firm of attorneys retained as counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Arranger as to their rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all direct out-of-pocket losses, and reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses, if any (including reasonable fees and expenses of outside counsel and reasonable allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel), of any Bank in connection with the enforcement (whether by legal proceedings, negotiation or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes, if any, and the other documents delivered hereunder.
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
 
(b) If, due to payments made by the Borrower due to acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to or due to any other reason, any Bank receives payments of principal of any Fixed Rate Advance other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Bank any amounts required to compensate such Bank for any additional direct out-of-pocket losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, including, without limitation, any such loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Bank to fund or maintain such Advance.
Section 9.01
 
(c) Subject to the next sentence, the Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Bank and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against any and all claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of outside counsel and reasonable allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel) which may be incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent or such Bank or any such director, officer or employee in connection with or arising out of any investigation, litigation, or proceeding (i) related to any transaction or proposed transaction (whether or not consummated) in which any proceeds of any Borrowing are applied or proposed to be applied, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower, whether or not the Administrative Agent or such Bank or any such director, officer or employee is a party to such transactions or (ii) related to the Borrower's entering into this Agreement, or to any actions or omissions of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates or any of its or their respective officers, directors or employees in connection therewith. The Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any such indemnified Person from or against any portion of such claims, damages, liabilities or expenses (a) arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified Person or (b) that result from the violation by the Administrative Agent or Bank of any law or judicial order.
 
SECTION 11.05. . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of , each Bank (and each of its Affiliates) is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Bank (or any of its Affiliates) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Notes held by such Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement and any Notes and of whether or not such obligations may be matured. Each Bank agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Bank, but the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Bank under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which such Bank may have.
Right of Set-Off
Section 9.01
Section 9.01
 
SECTION 11.06. . (a) This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all of the Banks.
Binding Effect; Assignment
 
(b) Any Bank may assign, participate or otherwise transfer all or any part of, or interest in, such Bank's rights and obligations hereunder and under the Notes issued to it hereunder to one or more banks or other entities; that (i) in the case of any transfer to a Person that is not a Bank, an Affiliate of a Bank or an Approved Fund, unless (except during the continuance of an Event of Default) the Borrower (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and the Administrative Agent (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall have expressly agreed in writing, no Bank shall, by reason of any such transfer, be relieved of any of its obligations or responsibilities to the Borrower hereunder, including without limitation the obligation to make Advances in accordance with the provisions of and , if any, or under any Note issued to it hereunder or the obligation to the Issuing Banks hereunder to participate in Letters of Credit in accordance with the terms of , and (ii) in the case of any assignment, the amount of the Commitment being assigned pursuant to such assignment shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 (or a lesser amount approved by the Administrative Agent); , , that during the continuance of any Event of Default hereunder, the consent of the Borrower to any such assignment shall not be required. To the extent of any such assignment (but not in the event of any such participation or other transfer) such assignee shall have the same rights and benefits against the Borrower as it would have had if it were a Bank hereunder. However, (i) unless and until the conditions for the Administrative Agent's treating such assignee as holder pursuant to clause (c) below shall have been satisfied, such assignee shall not be entitled to exercise the rights of a Bank under this Agreement and the Administrative Agent shall not be obligated to make payment of any amount to which such assignee may become entitled hereunder other than to the Bank which assigned its rights to such assignee and (ii) such assignee shall not be included for purposes of determining
provided
Article II
III
Article IV
provided
further
 
the number of Banks whose consent shall be required to take any action or refrain from taking any action hereunder or be entitled to exercise any voting rights hereunder unless (A) such assignee shall have acquired the respective assignor's entire interest under this Agreement and in the Notes made to such assignor or (B) if such assignee shall have acquired less than the respective assignor's entire interest herein and under such Notes, the Borrower shall have expressly agreed to such inclusion of such assignee and such exercise by such assignee. Nothing contained herein shall impair the ability of any Bank, in its discretion, to agree, solely as between itself and its assignees, participants and other transferees, upon the manner in which such Bank shall exercise its rights under this Agreement and the Notes made to such Bank.
 
(c) In order to effect any assignment permitted hereunder by a Bank of all or any portion of its Commitment hereunder, the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register (as defined below), an agreement substantially in the form of hereto (an ""), together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank hereunder and (y) the Bank assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Bank shall cease to be a party hereto).
Exhibit 11.06
Assignment and Acceptance
 
(d) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Bank assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in (and any later statements delivered pursuant to ) and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Bank or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vi) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank.
Section 7.01(f)
Section 8.01(g)(ii)
 
(e) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Banks and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Bank from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Banks may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Bank hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Bank at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 11.02
Register
 
(f) Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, each Bank may pledge its right, title and interest under this Agreement and any Note made to it to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other Governmental Authority, as security for financial accommodations or privileges being provided or extended to such Bank by such Governmental Authority.
 
SECTION 11.07. . The Administrative Agent, each Bank and each Issuing Bank agree to hold any confidential information which it may receive from the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, any such information obtained or gathered in connection with any inspection of the type contemplated in ) in confidence, except for disclosure (i) to its Affiliates, legal counsel, accountants, and other professional advisors, and then solely on a need-to-know basis, (ii) in response to any request or order therefor issued by any Governmental Authority, (iii) as required by law, regulation, or legal process, (iv) within any legal proceeding to enforce any of its rights or remedies hereunder; that an Event of Default shall have occurred hereunder and the requisite Banks shall have elected under to enforce such rights or remedies against the Borrower, (v) to any permitted assignee under , and (vi) of information which is already publicly available at the time of such disclosure.
Confidentiality
Section 8.01(f)
provided
Section 9.01
Section 11.06
 
SECTION 11.08. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws (as distinguished from the conflicts of laws rules) of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 11.09. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 11.10. . Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provisions or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
 
SECTION 11.11. . This Agreement, taken together with all of the other documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein to be delivered by the Borrower, embodies the entire agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, written and oral, relating to the subject matter hereof as among the Borrower, the Banks parties hereto and the Administrative Agent.
Entire Agreement
 
SECTION 11.12. . Notwithstanding the satisfaction of all conditions referred to in and with respect to any Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars, if there shall occur on or prior to the date of such Advance any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which would in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent or the Majority Banks make it impracticable for such Advance to be denominated in the Agreed Currency specified by the Borrower, then the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Banks, and such Advance shall not be denominated in such Agreed Currency but shall be made on such Borrowing Date in Dollars, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Dollar Amount of the aggregate principal amount specified in the related Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election, as the case may be, as Base Rate Advances, unless the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent at least one Domestic Business Day before such date that it elects not to borrow on such date.
Market Disruption
Article II
Article VI
 
SECTION 11.13. . If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due from the Borrower hereunder in the currency expressed to be payable herein (the "") into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the specified currency with such other currency at the Administrative Agent's main New York office on the Domestic Business Day preceding that on which final, non-appealable judgment is given. The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any Bank or the Administrative Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency other than the specified currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Domestic Business Day following receipt by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal, reasonable banking procedures purchase the specified currency with such other currency. If the amount of the specified currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency, the Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, against such loss, and if the amount of the specified currency so purchased exceeds (a) the sum originally due to any Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency and (b) any amounts shared with other Banks as a result of allocations of such excess as a disproportionate payment to such Bank under , such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, agrees to remit such excess to the Borrower.
Judgment Currency
specified currency
Section 5.17
 
SECTION 11.14. . Each Bank that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is
USA PATRIOT ACT
Act
 
required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Bank to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
 
 
The duly authorized parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers or agents, as of the date of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  as Administrative Agent for the
  Banks parties to the Credit
  Agreement referred to below
131 S. Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Angela Watson
 
Dear Ms. Watson:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Syndicated Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Syndicated Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 2.02
Proposed Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.02
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is , 20 .
            
    
 
(ii) The Type of Syndicated Advances comprising the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances] [EURIBOR Rate Advances].
 
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [$] [Approximate Equivalent Amount of] .
                    
 
(iv) The Interest Period for each Syndicated Advance made as part of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [ months] [ days].
            
            
 
(v) The Agreed Currency for each Syndicated Advance made as part of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [].
                                         
 
(vi) The proceeds of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A duly completed Form FR U-l (OMB No. 7100-0115), executed by a duly
 
authorized officer of the undersigned, accompanies this Notice of Syndicated Borrowing and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing].
 
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  as Administrative Agent for the
  Banks parties to the Credit
  Agreement referred to below
131 S. Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Angela Watson
 
Dear Ms. Watson:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement of an interest rate election, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to the affected Syndicated Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 2.03
Affected Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.03
 
(i) The Affected Syndicated Borrowing is the following:
 
 
 
 
____________________________________________________________
 
(ii) The portion of such Affected Syndicated Borrowing to be Converted is: [$] [[Approximate Equivalent Amount of] .
                                                                                          
 
(iii) Business Day of the Conversion in respect of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing is , 20.
            
    
 
(iv) Upon giving effect to the Conversion,
 
(a) the portion of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing that is Converted shall be comprised of [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances] [EURIBOR Rate Advances], each having an Interest Period of [and being in the Agreed Currency of ]; and
                    
                    
 
(b) the portion of the balance of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing shall continue to have the Type, the Agreed Currency and Interest Period specified in clause (i) above.
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  as Administrative Agent for
  the Banks parties to the Credit
  Agreement referred to below
131 S. Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests Competitive Bid Quotes for the following proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing(s) (the ""):
Credit Agreement
Section 3.02
Proposed Borrowings
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowings is , 20.
            
    
 
(ii) The Type of Advances with respect to which Competitive Bid Quotes are hereby requested are:
 
 
(iii) Where the Type of Advance is specified to be a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote a Competitive Bid Margin in relation to the Eurocurrency Rate to be determined for the applicable Interest Period. Where the Type of Advance is specified to be a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote a Competitive Bid Margin in relation to the EURIBOR to be determined for the applicable Interest Period. Where the Type of Advance is specified to be an Absolute Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote an Absolute Rate.
 
(iv) The Administrative Agent is hereby requested to advise [all of the Banks] [the Banks specified below] of the request for Competitive Bid Quotes set forth herein.
 
(v) The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A pro forma draft of the Form FR U-1 (OMB No. 7100-0015) which will be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the undersigned in the event that the undersigned issues a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing in connection with this Competitive Bid Quote Request accompanies this Competitive Bid Quote Request and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing].
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  as Administrative Agent for
  the Banks parties to the Credit
  Agreement referred to below
131 S. Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent and hereby notifies you of, and requests that you forward to Baxter International Inc, on our behalf, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the following Competitive Bid Quotes on the following terms:
Credit Agreement
Section 3.04
 
(i) Quoting Bank: .
                                                                     
 
(ii) Person to contact at the Quoting Bank:
 
Name:
                                                          
Telephone:
                                                 
Telecopy:
                                                   
Telex:
                                                           
 
(iii) Proposed Borrowing Date: .
                    
 
(iv) We hereby offer to make Competitive Bid Advances in the following principal amounts, for the following Interest Periods and at the following rates:
 
 
provided that the aggregate principal amount with respect to which the Borrower may accept offers in connection with this Competitive Bid Quote shall not exceed $.
                    
 
We understand and agree that the offer(s) set forth above, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, irrevocably obligate(s) us to make the Competitive Bid Advance(s) for which any such offer is accepted, in whole or in part.
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  as Administrative Agent for
  the Banks parties to the Credit
  Agreement referred to below
131 S. Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 3.06
Proposed Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is , 20.
            
    
 
(ii) The aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances, the Types thereof and the Interest Periods therefor that have been offered to the undersigned by Banks submitting Competitive Bid Quotes and that by this notice are hereby accepted, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, are set forth below:
 
 
(iii) The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that, by this notice, it irrevocably accepts the offers made by the Banks which shall have submitted Competitive Bid Quotes to the extent that the principal amount offered by each such Bank, together with the principal amount offered by all other such Banks in connection therewith, does not exceed the respective amounts set forth above. As among such Banks, the offers made are accepted in the ascending order of Competitive Bid Margin or Absolute Rate, as the case may be.
 
(iv) The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A duly completed Form FR U-1 (OMB No. 7100-0115), executed by a duly authorized officer of the undersigned, accompanies this Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing].
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 2004 (as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), by and among Baxter International Inc., the Banks thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used herein that are not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. [] (the "") is providing this certificate pursuant to subsection 5.15(d)(ii) of the Credit Agreement. The Bank hereby represents and warrants that:
Credit Agreement
Name of applicable Bank
Bank
 
1. The Bank is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Advance(s) in respect of which it is providing this certificate.
 
2. The Bank is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
Code
 
3. The Bank is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code).
 
4. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent if any of the representations and warranties made herein are no longer true and correct.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has duly executed this certificate as of the day of , 2004.
            
            
 
[Name of applicable Bank]
 
 
 
 
 
 
To each of the Banks parties
    to the Credit Agreement
    described below, and to
    JPMorgan Chase Bank,
    as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "") among Baxter International Inc. (the ""), the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Section 6.01(d)
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
I am General Counsel of the Borrower. I have acted as counsel for the Borrower in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement.
 
In that connection I have examined:
 
(1) The Credit Agreement.
 
(2) The Certificate of Incorporation of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "").
Charter
 
(3) The by-laws of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "").
By-laws
 
(4) Certificates of the Secretaries of State of Delaware, dated , , and Illinois, dated , , each attesting to the continued corporate existence and good standing of the Borrower in such State.
                    
            
                    
            
 
(5) All of the other documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 6.01
 
I have also examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of the documents listed in a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Borrower, dated the date hereof (the "") and attached hereto as , certifying that the documents listed in such certificate are all of the indentures, loan or credit agreements, leases, mortgages, security agreements, bonds, notes and other agreements or instruments, and all of the orders, writs,
Certificate
Exhibit A
 
judgments, awards, injunctions and decrees, which affect or purport to affect the Borrower's right to borrow money or the Borrower's obligations under the Credit Agreement or the Notes. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Borrower, certificates of public officials and of other officers of the Borrower, and agreements, instruments and documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of other officers of the Borrower or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Banks and the Administrative Agent. Based upon the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:
 
1. The Borrower is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which the failure so to qualify would have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, assets, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower.
 
2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower contained in any document, order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree listed in the Certificate or, to the best of my knowledge, contained in any other similar document or any other order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree. The Credit Agreement and the Notes have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower. If a Borrowing were to occur on this date in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, and assuming the statements made in of the Credit Agreement remained true and correct after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of such Borrowing, such Borrowing would not violate Regulation U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Section 7.01(h)
 
3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes.
 
4. The Credit Agreement and the Notes are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
5. There is no pending or, to the best of my knowledge, threatened action or proceeding against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator which is likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or the Notes.
 
6. The Borrower is not (i) an "investment company," (ii) a company "controlled" by an "investment company" which is registered under the Investment Company
 
Act of 1940, as amended, or (iii) to the best of my knowledge, a company "controlled" by any other "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
(b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above is subject to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
(c) I express no opinion as to (i) and of the Credit Agreement insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Bank's claims under the Credit Agreement or the Notes, (ii) or insofar as those Sections may be construed as requiring that the Borrower indemnify any Bank or the Administrative Agent with respect to any claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by such Bank or the Administrative Agent, and (iii) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois wherein any Bank may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought which limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible.
Sections 5.17
11.05
Section 5.15(c)
11.04(c)
 
I am aware that Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP will rely upon the statements in this opinion (other than paragraph 4) in rendering their opinion furnished pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 6.01
 
The opinions expressed above are based solely on factual matters in existence as of the date hereof and laws and regulations in effect on the date hereof. I assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion letter should such factual matters change or should such laws or regulations be changed by legislative or regulatory action, judicial decision or otherwise.
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
 
 
 
To the Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement and Listed on Schedule I hereto:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Baxter International Inc. (the "") in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "") among the Borrower, the banks parties thereto (the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent (the ""). All capitalized terms used in this opinion shall have the meanings attributed to them in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
Banks
Administrative Agent
 
In that connection we have reviewed the following documents:
 
(1) Counterparts of the Credit Agreement, purportedly executed by each of the parties thereto; and
 
(2) The opinion of [], General Counsel of the Borrower, and the other documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
                                         
Section 6.01
 
In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the authenticity of all such documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures, the due authority of the parties executing such documents, and the conformity to the originals of such documents submitted to us as copies. We have assumed that each of the Banks, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower have duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement, in each case with all necessary power and authority (corporate and otherwise). To the extent that our opinions expressed below involve conclusions as to the matters set forth in the opinion of counsel referred to in item (2) above, we have assumed without independent investigation the correctness of the opinions set forth therein (other than the opinion set forth in paragraph 4 thereof). In addition, we have assumed that there are no written or oral terms or conditions agreed to by the Borrower, and any or all of the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Banks which could vary the truth, completeness, correctness, validity or effect of the Credit Agreement or the Notes.
 
Based upon the foregoing examination of documents and the assumptions set forth herein and upon such investigation as we have deemed necessary, we are of the opinion
 
that, under the law of the State of New York, the Credit Agreement and the Notes are the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
Our opinion is subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a) Our opinion is subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, receivership, reorganization or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). In applying such principles, a court, among other things, might not allow a creditor to accelerate the maturity of a debt upon the occurrence of a default deemed immaterial or might decline to order a debtor to perform covenants. Such principles applied by a court might include a requirement that a creditor act with reasonableness and in good faith.
 
(b) Our opinion is limited to the internal (as opposed to conflicts of laws) laws of the State of New York, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we express no opinion as to the effect upon the obligations of the Borrower of (i) any law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Bank may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought or (ii) the legal status of any of the Banks.
 
(c) We express no opinion as to (i) and of the Credit Agreement, insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Bank's claims under the Credit Agreement or the Notes or (ii) or , insofar as those Sections may be construed as requiring that the Borrower indemnify any Bank or the Administrative Agent with respect to any claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by such Bank or the Administrative Agent.
Sections 5.17
11.05
Section 5.15(c)
11.04(c)
 
This opinion is limited to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly set forth herein. The opinions expressed herein are being delivered to you as of the date hereof in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and are solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and may not be relied on in any manner or for any purpose by any other person, nor any copies published, communicated or otherwise made available in whole or in part to any other person or entity without our specific prior written consent, except that you may furnish copies thereof (i) to any of your permitted successors and assigns in respect of the Credit Agreement, (ii) to your independent auditors and attorneys, (iii) upon the request of any state or federal authority or official having regulatory jurisdiction over you, and (iv) pursuant to order or legal process of any court or governmental agency.
 
The opinions expressed above are based solely on factual matters in existence as of the date hereof and laws and regulations in effect on the date hereof. We assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion letter should such factual matters change or should such laws or regulations be changed by legislative or regulatory action, judicial decision or otherwise.
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
[Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP]
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter International Inc.
One Baxter Parkway
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
 
Gentlemen:
 
We have examined the consolidated balance sheet of Baxter International Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 20, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and changes in financial position for the year then ended, and have issued our report thereon dated , 20. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
    
                    
    
 
In connection with our examination, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Baxter International Inc. is not in compliance with the covenants of or of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 2004 among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. However, it should be noted that our examination was not directed primarily toward obtaining knowledge of such noncompliance.
Section 8.01(i)
8.02(b)
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
[PriceWaterhouse Coopers LLP]
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2004 (the "") among Baxter International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain "Banks" parties thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent for the Banks (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
(the "") and (the "") agree as follows:
                        
Assignor
                        
Assignee
 
1. The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, that interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof which represents the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, including without limitation, such interest in the Assignor's Commitment [,] [and] the [Syndicated] Advances owing to the Assignor [, and the Note[s]] held by the Assignor]. After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignee's Commitment and the amount of the Advance owing to the Assignee will be as set forth in of Schedule 1.
Section 2
 
2. The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; [and] (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto [; and (iv) attaches the Note[s]] referred to in paragraph 1 above and requests that the Administrative Agent exchange such Note[s]] for [a] new Note[s] payable to the order of the Assignee [which, in the case of the Note, shall be in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, respectively, as specified on Schedule 1 hereto].
 
3. The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in and
Section 7.01(f)
 
thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank' [and] (v) specifies as its Applicable Lending Offices and address for notices the offices set forth beneath its name on the signature pages hereof [and (vi) attaches the forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States certifying as to the Assignee's status for purposes of establishing complete exemption from United States withholding taxes with respect to all payments to be made to the Assignee under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] or such other documents as are necessary to indicate that none of such payments shall be subject to United States withholding taxes by reason of the applicable tax treaty].
8.01(g)(ii)
1
 
4. Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance by the Assignor and the Assignee, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent. The effective date (the "") of this Assignment and Acceptance shall be the later to occur of the date of acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent and the date that is specified in of Schedule 1.
Effective Date
Section 3
 
5. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
6. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and facility and utilization fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee. The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
 
7. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written, such execution being made on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Section 1
 
Percentage Interest: %
        
 
.
Section 2
 
 
.
Section 3
 
Requested Effective Date:
2
, 20
                    
    
 
 
[Accepted
3
this day of , 20]
            
                    
    
 
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK,
as Administrative Agent
 
 
[Acknowledged and Agreed this
4
day of , 20]
            
                    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise specified, the office set forth below opposite the name of any Bank is such Bank's "Domestic Lending Office", "Eurocurrency Lending Office," "EURIBOR Lending Office" and "Competitive Bid Lending Office":
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.38
 
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement under the heading "Banks" (such financial institutions and any successor financial institution that becomes a party to this Agreement pursuant to or hereinafter referred to as the ""), Bank One, NA (""), as administrative agent hereunder (such administrative agent and any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to hereinafter referred to as the ""), JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent (the ""), each of Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as co-lead arrangers hereunder (the "") and each of Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents hereunder (the ""), agree as follows:
Borrower
Section 5.18
11.06
Banks
Bank One
Section 10.06
Administrative Agent
Syndication Agent
Co-Lead Arrangers
Co-Documentation Agents
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Five-Year Credit Agreement (this ""), the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Defined Terms
Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to an Absolute Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the rate of interest per annum (rounded to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such Absolute Rate Advance.
Absolute Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as an Absolute Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each Absolute Rate Advance shall bear interest at an Absolute Rate as provided in .
Absolute Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d)
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Absolute Rates for Absolute Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
Absolute Rate Auction
Article III
 
"" means, at any time, (a) all Debt, (b) an amount equal to all cash and cash equivalent investments of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time.
Adjusted Debt
minus
 
"" means a Syndicated Advance and/or a Competitive Bid Advance, as the context requires.
Advance
 
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person.
Affiliate
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of all the Banks hereunder at such time.
Aggregate Commitments
 
"" means (i) Dollars, (ii) so long as such currencies remain Eligible Currencies, Swiss Francs and Euro, and (iii) any other Eligible Currency which the Borrower requests the Administrative Agent to include as an Agreed Currency hereunder and which is acceptable to all of the Banks. For the purposes of this definition, each of the specific currencies referred to in clause (ii), above, shall mean and be deemed to refer to the lawful currency of the jurisdiction referred to in connection with such currency, , "Swiss Francs" means the lawful currency of Switzerland.
Agreed Currencies
e.g.
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, such Bank's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, such Bank's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, such Bank's EURIBOR Lending Office in the case of a EURIBOR Rate Advance, and such Bank's Competitive Bid Lending Office in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Bank, (b) an Affiliate of a Bank or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Bank.
Approved Fund
 
"" of any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars means the Equivalent Amount of such currency with respect to such amount of Dollars on or as of such date, rounded up to the nearest amount of such currency as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time.
Approximate Equivalent Amount
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, an amount equal to (i) such Bank's Commitment at such time (ii) an amount equal to such Bank's ratable share, determined on the basis that such Bank's Commitment bears to all Commitments at such time, of the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances outstanding at such time (iii) such Bank's L/C Interest in the L/C Obligations outstanding at such time.
Available Commitment
minus
minus
 
"" means Bank One, NA, a national banking association having its principal office in Chicago, Illinois, in its individual capacity, and its successors.
Bank One
 
"" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of (i) the Prime Rate and (ii) a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate 0.50%.
Base Rate
plus
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, or pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance in substitution for a Fixed Rate Advance, or pursuant to , as a Base Rate Advance by a Bank funding an unreimbursed Reimbursement Obligation, and (ii) any Advance Converted into a Base Rate Advance in accordance with or . Each Base Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
Base Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 5.01
Section 4.06
Section 2.03
5.01
Section 5.07(a)
 
"" means a Syndicated Borrowing and/or a Competitive Bid Borrowing, as the context requires.
Borrowing
 
"" means a date on which an Advance is, or is proposed to be, made hereunder, or a Letter of Credit is, or is proposed to be, issued hereunder.
Borrowing Date
 
"" means (i) with respect to a Base Rate Advance or an Absolute Rate Advance or for any other purpose not relating to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, a Domestic Business Day, (ii) with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance, a Eurocurrency Business Day, and (iii) with respect to a EURIBOR Advance, a EURIBOR Business Day.
Business Day
 
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Exchange Act and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) of 30% or more of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Borrower by any Person or group.
Change of Control
 
"" means October 3, 2002.
Closing Date
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., in their capacities as Co-Documentation Agents.
Co-Documentation Agents
 
"" means Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., in their capacities as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
Co-Lead Arrangers
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time the amount indicated opposite such Bank's name on , as such amount may have been reduced as of or prior to such time pursuant to or modified in accordance with .
Commitment
Schedule 1.01 hereto
Section 5.05
Section 11.06
 
"" means an advance by a Bank to the Borrower pursuant to and refers to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, an Absolute Rate Advance or an advance in substitution therefor pursuant to .
Competitive Bid Advance
Article III
Section 5.01
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of Competitive Bid Advances (i) made on the same day by the Banks whose Competitive Bid Quotes in connection with a given type of auction, whether a Eurocurrency Auction, EURIBOR Auction or an Absolute Rate Auction, shall have been accepted by the Borrower in accordance with , (ii) having the same Interest Period, and (iii) being in the same currency.
Competitive Bid Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility
Section 3.01
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Competitive Bid Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. Any Bank may from time to time by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent designate separate Competitive Bid Lending Offices for its Absolute Rate Advances, its Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances and its EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, in which case all references herein to the "Competitive Bid Lending Office" of such Bank shall be deemed to refer to any one or all of such offices, as the context may require.
Competitive Bid Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" means (i) with respect to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, a margin above or below the applicable Eurocurrency Rate which is offered for a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, expressed as a percentage (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000 of 1%) to be added to or subtracted from such Eurocurrency Rate and (ii) with respect to a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, a margin above or below the applicable EURIBOR which is offered for a EURIBOR Rate Advance, expressed as a percentage (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000 of 1%) to be added to or subtracted from such EURIBOR.
Competitive Bid Margin
 
"" means a Competitive Bid Quote substantially in the form of hereto, completed by a Bank and delivered by such Bank to the Administrative Agent in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Quote
Exhibit 3.04
Section 3.04
 
"" means a Competitive Bid Quote Request substantially in the form of hereto, completed by the Borrower and delivered by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Quote Request
Exhibit 3.02
Section 3.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in
Computation Date
Section 2.04.
 
"" refers to the full consolidation of the accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, including principles of consolidation, consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in .
Consolidated
Section 7.01(f)
 
"" means, at any time, the sum at such time of: (i) the Consolidated stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (ii) Adjusted Debt of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Capitalization
 
"" means the total amount of assets which would be included on a Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (and which shall reflect the deduction of applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom all current liabilities of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and all Intangible Assets.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
Control
 
"", "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of another Type or a continuation of Advances as the same Type for an additional Interest Period, in each case pursuant to .
Convert
Conversion
Converting
Converted
Section 2.03
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Credit Ratings
Section 5.04(a)
 
"" means long-term debt securities (without third-party credit enhancement).
Debentures
 
"" means the sum of: (i) indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services carried as indebtedness on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of such Person's business payable on terms customary in the trade), (ii) obligations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as lessee under leases that, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are recorded as capital leases, and (iii) obligations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above (other than Debt of any Subsidiary, to the extent such Debt is included in the calculation of Debt as a result of clause (i) or (ii) above) in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate and (iv) indebtedness or obligations of the kinds referred to in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) above of the Borrower's unconsolidated Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000 in the aggregate. The term "Debt" shall not include (x) any obligations of the Borrower under or in connection with that certain Facility and Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 3, 1999 between the Borrower and The First National Bank of Chicago (now known as Bank One, NA), as agent, relating to the Borrower's "1999 Shared Investment Plan", to the extent such obligations do not exceed an aggregate amount equal to $200,000,000 or (y) the undrawn face amount of any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business, but shall include the reimbursement obligation owing from time to time by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of drawings made under any letter of credit in the event reimbursement is not made immediately following the applicable drawing.
Debt
 
"" of any currency at any date means (i) the amount of such currency if such currency is Dollars or (ii) the equivalent in Dollars of the amount of such currency if such currency is any currency other than Dollars, calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent for such currency on (x) the Brussels euro-zone interbank market at 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, with respect to Euro or (y) the London interbank market at 11:00 a.m., London time, with respect to any currency other than Euro, in each case, on or as of the most recent Computation Date provided for in .
Dollar Amount
Section 2.04
 
"" and "" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means a day (other than Saturday or Sunday) of the year on which Banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City or Chicago, Illinois and are generally open for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
Domestic Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" means any currency other than Dollars (i) that is readily available, (ii) that is freely traded, (iii) in which deposits are customarily offered to banks in the Brussels euro-zone interbank market or London interbank market, as applicable, (iv) which is convertible into Dollars in the international interbank market and (v) as to which an Equivalent Amount may be readily calculated. If, after the designation by the Banks of any currency as an Agreed Currency, (x) currency control or other exchange regulations are imposed in the country in which such currency is issued with the result that different types of such currency are introduced, (y) such currency is, in the determination of the Administrative Agent, no longer readily available or freely traded or (z) in the determination of the Administrative Agent, an Equivalent Amount of such currency is not readily calculable, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Banks and the Borrower, and such currency shall no longer be an Agreed Currency until such time as all of the Banks agree to reinstate such currency as an Agreed Currency and promptly, but in any event within five Business Days of receipt of such notice from the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall repay all Loans in such affected currency or convert such Loans into Loans in Dollars or another Agreed Currency, subject to the other terms set forth in and .
Eligible Currency
Article II
Article III
 
"" means federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to the release, emission, disposal, storage and related handling of waste materials, pollutants and hazardous substances.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity interests in a Person, and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Equity Interests
 
"" of any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars at any date shall mean the equivalent in such currency of such amount of Dollars, calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent (x) at 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, with respect to Euro or (y) at 11:00 a.m., London time, with respect to any currency other than Euro, in each case, on the date on or as of which such amount is to be determined.
Equivalent Amount
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
"" means, with respect to any EURIBOR Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the interest rate per annum equal to the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Euro appear on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the date that is two (2) TARGET Settlement Days preceding the
EURIBOR
 
first day of such Interest Period; provided, that if such rate does not appear on the Reuters Screen ERIBOR01, then EURIBOR shall be an interest rate per annum equal to the arithmetic mean determined by the Administrative Agent (rounded upwards to the nearest .01%) of the rates per annum at which deposits in Euro are offered by the three (3) leading banks in the euro-zone interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the day that is two (2) TARGET Settlement Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period to other leading banks in the euro-zone interbank market.
 
"" means any EURIBOR Rate Advance or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance for any Advance in Euro.
EURIBOR Advance
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Competitive Bid Margins in relation to the applicable EURIBOR for EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
EURIBOR Auction
Article III
 
"" means, with respect to a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the EURIBOR applicable thereto and (b) the Competitive Bid Margin offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance.
EURIBOR Bid Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance shall bear interest at a EURIBOR Bid Rate as provided in .
EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d)
 
"" means any Domestic Business Day on which dealings are carried on in the Brussels euro-zone interbank market and which is a TARGET Settlement Date.
EURIBOR Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "EURIBOR Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
EURIBOR Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
EURIBOR Margin
Section 5.07(c)
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a EURIBOR Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing and (ii) any Advance converted into a EURIBOR Rate Advance in accordance with . Each EURIBOR Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
EURIBOR Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.07(c)
 
"" and/or "" means the euro referred to in Council Regulation (EC) No. 1103/97 dated June 17, 1997 passed by the Council of the European Union, or, if different, the then lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that participates in the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union.
Euro
EUR
 
"" means any Eurocurrency Rate Advance or Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance for any Advance in any Agreed Currency other than Euro.
Eurocurrency Advance
 
"" means a solicitation of Competitive Bid Quotes setting forth Competitive Bid Margins in relation to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate for Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances to be extended pursuant to .
Eurocurrency Auction
Article III
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance made by a given Bank for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the Eurocurrency Rate applicable thereto and (b) the Competitive Bid Margin offered by such Bank and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance.
Eurocurrency Bid Rate
 
"" means an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to as a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Each Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance shall bear interest at a Eurocurrency Bid Rate as provided in ).
Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance
Article III
Section 5.07(d
 
"" means any Domestic Business Day on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Eurocurrency Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Eurocurrency Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
Schedule 1.02
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Eurocurrency Margin
Section 5.07(b)
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance in an Agreed Currency (other than Euro) for the relevant Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in the applicable Agreed Currency as reported by any generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Eurocurrency Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period; provided, that, if no such British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate is available to the Administrative Agent, the applicable Eurocurrency Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which Bank One or one of its Affiliate banks offers to place deposits in an Agreed Currency (other than Euro) with first-class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
 
"" means (i) an Advance made or to be made by a Bank pursuant to , as a Eurocurrency Rate Advance in accordance with the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, and (ii) any Advance Converted into a Eurocurrency Rate Advance in accordance with . Each Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall bear interest as provided in .
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.07(b)
 
"" of any Bank for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Rate Advance, as applicable, means the maximum reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or, if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for determining the reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement and taking into account any transitional adjustments or other scheduled changes in reserve requirements during such Interest Period) for such Bank with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Events of Default
Section 9.01
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Credit Agreement (Facility A) dated as of November 24, 1998 among the Borrower, the financial institutions parties thereto, certain "Co-Arrangers" and The First National Bank of Chicago (now known as Bank One, NA), as "Administrative Agent".
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" means, at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Syndicated Advances denominated in Dollars and the Dollar Amount of all Syndicated Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars outstanding at such time, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of all Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Dollars and the Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars outstanding at such time and (iii) the aggregate amount of all L/C Obligations outstanding at such time.
Facility Usage
 
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Domestic Business Day, for the next preceding Domestic Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Domestic Business Day, the average of the quotations of such rates on such day received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
"" means the earlier to occur of (i) the initial Borrowing made by the Borrower hereunder or (ii) the initial Letter of Credit issued by an Issuing Bank hereunder.
First Borrowing
 
"" means Eurocurrency Rate Advances, EURIBOR Rate Advances or Competitive Bid Advances (excluding Competitive Bid Advances bearing interest at the Base Rate pursuant to ) or any combination of the foregoing.
Fixed Rate Advances
Section 5.01
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Governmental Acts
Section 4.09(a)
 
"" means any nation or government, any federal, state, local or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
 
"" means all assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which are treated as intangibles in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Intangible Assets
 
"" means, with respect to any period, the Consolidated interest expense of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period before the effect of interest income, as reflected on the Consolidated statements of income for the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period.
Interest Expense
 
"" means, for each Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Advance (or, in the case of any Syndicated Borrowing, on the effective date of Conversion thereof pursuant to and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be (a) in the case of a Base Rate Advance, 30, 60, 90 or 180 days, (b) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Rate Advance, one, two, three or six months, (c) in the case of a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, one, two, three or six months, and (d) in the case of an Absolute Rate Advance, a number of days not to exceed 180 days, in each case as the Borrower may select pursuant to , or , as applicable; , that:
Interest Period
Section 2.03)
Section 2.02
2.03
3.02
provided
 
(i) The duration of any Interest Period which would otherwise end after the Termination Date shall end on the Termination Date;
 
(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same day for Advances comprising the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(iii) Whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, unless, in the case of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Advance or a EURIBOR Advance, such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, in which case the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the immediately preceding Business Day; and
 
(iv) If an Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Advance or a EURIBOR Advance begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period), such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month.
 
"" means Bank One and any other Bank which, at the Borrower's request, agrees, in such Bank's sole discretion, to become an Issuing Bank for the purpose of issuing Letters of Credit under this Agreement, and their respective successors and assigns.
Issuing Banks
 
"" means a letter of credit application and reimbursement agreement in such form as the applicable Issuing Bank may from time to time employ in the ordinary course of business.
L/C Application
 
"" means a draft drawn on an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
L/C Draft
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
L/C Interest
Section 4.05
 
"" means, without duplication, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the aggregate of the amount then available for drawing under each of the Letters of Credit, (ii) the face amount of all outstanding L/C Drafts corresponding to the Letters of Credit, which L/C Drafts have been accepted by the applicable Issuing Bank, (iii) the aggregate outstanding amount of all Reimbursement Obligations at such time and (iv) the aggregate face amount of all Letters of Credit requested by the Borrower but not yet issued (unless the request for an unissued Letter of Credit has been denied).
L/C Obligations
 
"" means any letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to .
Letter of Credit
Section 4.01
 
"" means at any time Banks having at least 51% of the then aggregate amount of the Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, holding at least 51% of the aggregate Dollar Amount of Advances and L/C Obligations then outstanding.
Majority Banks
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term under Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Margin Stock
 
"" means an amount equal to $50,000,000.
Material Default Amount
 
"" means any of (i) Baxter Healthcare Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (ii) Baxter World Trade Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or (iii) in the case of any specified condition or event, any other Subsidiary or group of other Subsidiaries (A) each of which has suffered such condition or event to occur and (B) that in the aggregate represents five percent (5%) or more of the net revenues or the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as reflected in the then most recent financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to or .
Material Subsidiary
Section 8.01(g)(i)
(ii)
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or its successor.
Moody's
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Note
Section 5.16(d)
 
"" means a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and/or a Notice of Syndicated Borrowing, as the context requires.
Notice of Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Interest Rate Election
Section 2.03
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Notice of Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.02
 
"" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
 
"" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced from time to time by Bank One or its parent (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer), changing when and as said prime rate changes.
Prime Rate
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Receivable
Section 8.02(a)(12)
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Reimbursement Obligation
Section 4.06
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or its successor.
S&P
 
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
SEC
 
"" means the amount of Debt or other obligation or liability of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries the payment of which is secured by a Security Interest.
Secured Debt
 
"" means any lien, security interest, mortgage or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, title retention device, pledge or any other type of preferential arrangement, upon or with respect to any property of the Borrower or of any Material Subsidiary, whether now owned or hereafter acquired.
Security Interest
 
"" means any entity with respect to which the Borrower alone owns, the Borrower and one or more Subsidiaries together own, or the Borrower and any Person controlling the Borrower together own, in each such case directly or indirectly, capital stock (or the equivalent equity interest) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of such corporation (or, in the case of a partnership or joint venture, having the majority interest in the capital or profits of such entity).
Subsidiary
 
"" means an advance by a Bank to the Borrower (i) pursuant to , as the same may be converted or continued from time to time pursuant to or (ii) pursuant to . At any time, depending upon the interest rate selected therefor or otherwise applicable thereto in accordance with and , a Syndicated Advance shall be a Base Rate Advance, a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Rate Advance.
Syndicated Advance
Section 2.02
Section 2.03
Section 4.06
Section 2.03
5.01
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of Syndicated Advances of the same Type and in the same currency, made on the same day by the Banks, as the same may be converted or continued from time to time pursuant to and after giving effect to any subsequent Conversion in connection with which a single Syndicated Borrowing may have been divided into several Syndicated Borrowings or several Syndicated Borrowings may have been combined (in whole or in part) into a single Syndicated Borrowing. An Advance substituted, pursuant to , for a Syndicated Advance made in connection with any Syndicated Borrowing shall continue to comprise a part of such Syndicated Borrowing with the same effect as if such substituted Advance were an Advance of the Type requested in the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election.
Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.03
Section 5.01
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in .
Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Section 2.01
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, the temporary reduction in such Bank's Available Commitment existing at such time as a result of clause (ii) of the definition of Available Commitment and, with respect to all Banks, the aggregate amount of such reductions existing at such time.
Syndicated Reduction
 
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank in its capacity as Syndication Agent.
Syndication Agent
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System (or any successor settlement system) is open.
TARGET Settlement Day
 
"" means, the earlier of (i) October 3, 2007 and (ii) the date on which the Commitments shall have been reduced to zero or terminated in whole pursuant to the terms hereof.
Termination Date
 
"" means that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement of even date herewith among the Borrower, certain "Banks" and "Co-Arrangers" parties thereto, and Bank One, NA, as administrative agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified.
364-Day Credit Agreement
 
"" of Advance means (i) in the case of Syndicated Advances, Eurocurrency Rate Advances, EURIBOR Rate Advances or Base Rate Advances and (ii) in the case of Competitive Bid Advances, Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances, EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances or Absolute Rate Advances or any Type of Advance described in clause (i) which shall, pursuant to , be substituted therefor.
Type
Section 5.01
 
"" means, in the case of a single employer pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, the amount, if any, by which the present value of all vested benefits accrued to the date of determination under such plan exceeds the fair market value of all assets of such plan allocable to such benefits as of such date, and, in the case of a multi-employer pension benefit plan, the withdrawal liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Unfunded Liabilities
 
SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement, when computing periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding."
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower's independent accountants or, in the case of the financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to , as determined by the Borrower to be required in accordance with then existing generally accepted accounting principles) with the December 31, 2001 audited Consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries. If any change in accounting principles from principles used in preparing such December 31, 2001 statements would have a material effect upon the results of any calculation required by or in compliance with any provision of this Agreement, then such calculation shall be made or compliance with such provision shall be determined using accounting principles in effect on December 31, 2001.
Accounting Terms and Principles
Section 8.01(g)(i)
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. . Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions provided herein, to make Syndicated Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof to the Termination Date in an aggregate Dollar Amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Bank's Available Commitment (the ""). Subject to , each Syndicated Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $25,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess thereof) (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if such Syndicated Advances are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars), shall be made on the same day from the Banks ratably according to their respective Commitments and shall consist of Syndicated Advances of the same Type. Within the limits of each Bank's Available Commitment, the Borrower may borrow Syndicated Advances under this , maintain Syndicated Advances outstanding by Converting such Syndicated Advances pursuant to , or prepay Syndicated Advances pursuant to , and reborrow Syndicated Advances under this . The Aggregate Commitments to lend hereunder shall expire on the Termination Date.
The Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Syndicated Borrowing Facility
Section 5.01
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 5.12
Section 2.01
 
SECTION 2.02. . Each Syndicated Borrowing shall be requested by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex notice given by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) three Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, and (ii) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Borrowing comprised
Making the Syndicated Advances
 
of Base Rate Advances. Each notice of Syndicated Borrowing pursuant to this (a "") shall be in substantially the form of hereto, specifying the proposed Borrowing Date, Type of Syndicated Advances, aggregate amount of the proposed Syndicated Borrowing and the Interest Period and Agreed Currency applicable thereto for each such Syndicated Advance, and shall include such information as shall be required by . The Administrative Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Bank by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex of the date, applicable interest rate and aggregate amount of such Syndicated Borrowing and such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing. Each Bank, for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, shall (i) with respect to a Syndicated Borrowing denominated in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the Borrowing Date specified in the notice received from the Administrative Agent pursuant to the preceding sentence, deposit such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing in same day funds to the Administrative Agent's LS2 Incoming Clearing Account No. 4811-5286 (ABA No. 071000013) (unless another account is designated by the Administrative Agent for such purpose), Reference: Baxter International Inc., maintained at 1 Bank One Plaza, Chicago, Illinois and (ii) with respect to a Syndicated Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (local time) in the city of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office, on the Borrowing Date specified in the notice received from the Administrative Agent pursuant to the preceding sentence, deposit such Bank's ratable portion of such Syndicated Borrowing in such funds as may then be customary for the settlement of international transactions in such Agreed Currency in the city of and at the address of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make same day funds in the amount of such funds available to the Borrower within 30 minutes of demand (which may be by telephone) by the Borrower, at the Administrative Agent's address provided in .
Section 2.02
Notice of Syndicated Borrowing
Exhibit 2.02
Section 8.01(h)
Article VI
Section 11.02
 
SECTION 2.03. . (a) The Advances included in each Syndicated Borrowing shall bear interest initially at the type of rate specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Syndicated Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower may from time to time elect to change or continue the Interest Period for each Borrowing (subject in each case to the provisions of ), as follows:
Method of Electing Interest Rates
Article V
 
 
 
 
Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent by not later than 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least three Business Days before the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective. If the Borrower shall fail to issue a Notice of Interest Rate Election within three Business Days prior to the end of any Interest Period (unless the Borrower shall have issued a notice of prepayment in respect of the applicable Borrowing in accordance with ), the Advances comprising such Borrowing shall be, as applicable, converted into or continued as Base Rate Advances having an Interest Period of 30 days (with respect to an Advance denominated in Dollars) or shall be, as applicable, continued as a Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, in the same Agreed Currency with an Interest Period of one month (with respect to an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars). A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Borrowing; that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) the portion to which such Notice of Interest Rate Election applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each $25,000,000 or any larger multiple of $5,000,000 (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if such Syndicated Advances are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than in Dollars). Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, this Section shall not be construed to permit the Borrower to change the currency of any Borrowing.
Notice of Interest Rate Election
Section 5.12
provided
 
(b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be substantially in the form of hereto and shall specify:
Exhibit 2.03
 
 
 
 
 
Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period. Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be irrevocable when given by the Borrower.
 
(c) Upon receipt of a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower pursuant to above, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof.
subsection (a)
 
(d) Upon the occurrence, and during the continuance, of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may (and, at the direction of the Majority Banks, the Administrative Agent shall) suspend the ability of the Borrower to obtain Conversions of Syndicated
 
Borrowings into Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, and each Conversion proposed to occur during any such period of suspension shall be a Conversion into Base Rate Advances. Such suspension shall become effective upon notice thereof to the Borrower and each of the Banks, and shall remain in effect until the Event of Default giving rise to such notice is cured or waived.
 
SECTION 2.04. . (a) The Administrative Agent will determine the Dollar Amount of:
Determination of Dollar Amounts; Required Payments; Termination
 
 
 
Each day upon or as of which the Administrative Agent determines Dollar Amounts as described in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) is herein described as a "Computation Date" with respect to each Advance for which a Dollar Amount is determined on or as of such day. If at any time the Dollar Amount of the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances (calculated, with respect to those Advances denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars, as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each such Advance) exceeds 105% of the Aggregate Commitments, the Borrower shall immediately repay Advances in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to cause the remaining outstanding Advances to equal the Aggregate Commitments.
 
(b) Any outstanding Advances and all other unpaid amounts due and payable hereunder shall be paid in full by the Borrower on the Termination Date.
 
SECTION 2.05. . The Borrower may, at its option, on one or more occasions, seek to increase the Aggregate Commitments by up to $400,000,000 upon at least fifteen (15) Domestic Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such requested increase and shall be delivered at a time when no Event of Default (or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both) has occurred and is continuing. The Administrative Agent, in its sole discretion will offer the increase in the Aggregate Commitments to banks or other financial institutions. No increase in the Aggregate Commitments shall become effective until (i) the existing Bank or new Bank extending such incremental commitment amount and the Borrower shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent an agreement in writing in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent pursuant to which such Bank states its Commitment and agrees to assume and accept the obligations and rights of a Bank hereunder and (ii) the Borrower has provided the Administrative Agent with such related certificates, opinions and other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Increase in Aggregate Commitment
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. . Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions provided herein, to make available to the Borrower a competitive bid borrowing facility (the "") pursuant to which the Borrower may, from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof to the Termination Date and as otherwise set forth in this , request all of the Banks or certain Banks specified by the Borrower to offer to make Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Agreed Currencies to the Borrower. Each Bank of which any such request shall be made may, but shall have no obligation to, make such offers and the Borrower may, but shall have no obligation to, accept any such offer in the manner set forth in this . The Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility is an entirely separate facility from the Syndicated Borrowing Facility; that at no time shall the Facility Usage exceed the Aggregate Commitments at such time. Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this , the Borrower may from time to time borrow, repay and reborrow under this .
The Competitive Bid Facility
Competitive Bid Borrowing Facility
Article III
Article III
provided
Article III
Article III
 
SECTION 3.02. . When the Borrower wishes to request offers to make Competitive Bid Advances under this , it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a Competitive Bid Quote Request by telephone (confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex so as to be received no later than (x) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least four Business Days prior to the Borrowing Date proposed therein, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or EURIBOR Auction or (y) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least one Business Day prior to the Borrowing Date proposed therein, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree), specifying:
Competitive Bid Quote Request
Article III
 
(a) the proposed Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day, for the proposed Competitive Bid Advances;
 
(b) the aggregate principal amount and currency of such Competitive Bid Advances;
 
(c) whether the Competitive Bid Quotes requested are to set forth a Competitive Bid Margin (and, if so, whether based on a Eurocurrency Rate or EURIBOR) or an Absolute Rate, or both;
 
(d) the Interest Period and Agreed Currency applicable thereto; and
 
(e) if fewer than all Banks are to be solicited, the names of the Banks to be solicited; that the Borrower shall not specify fewer than all of the Banks, and the Administrative Agent shall reject any Competitive Bid Quote Request that specifies fewer than all of the Banks, if the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Competitive Bid Advances which will be outstanding after giving effect to the Competitive Bid Advances requested in such Competitive Bid Quote Request and which shall have been made in response to one or more Competitive Bid Quote Requests that specified fewer than all of the Banks exceeds $150,000,000.
provided
 
The Borrower may request offers to make Competitive Bid Advances for more than one Interest Period, but not more than eight Interest Periods, in a single Competitive Bid Quote Request. No Competitive Bid Quote Request shall be given within five Business Days (or such other number of days as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree) of any other Competitive Bid Quote Request. A Competitive Bid Quote Request that does not conform substantially to the format of hereto shall be rejected, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of such rejection by telephone, telex, or telecopy.
Exhibit 3.02
 
SECTION 3.03. . The Administrative Agent shall (a) promptly upon receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request that is not rejected pursuant to , and in any event not later than (i) 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction, and (ii) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of receipt of a Competitive Bid Quote Request, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, provide notice by telephone to each of the Banks (or, if fewer than all of the Banks shall have been specified therein, to each of the specified Banks) of the request set forth therein, and (b) promptly thereafter provide to each such Bank by telex or telecopy a copy of such Competitive Bid Quote Request or a summary of the contents thereof. If, pursuant to , the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree as to times for the delivery of a Competitive Bid Quote Request other than those set forth in , and shall notify the Banks thereof, such notice to the Banks shall set forth in addition any changes in the times set forth in this . A Competitive Bid Quote Request shall not be revocable at any time after the Administrative Agent's notice to the Banks by telephone of such Competitive Bid Quote Request.
Invitation for Competitive Bid Quotes
Section 3.02
Section 3.02
Section 3.02
Section 3.03
 
SECTION 3.04. . (a) Each Bank receiving notice of a Competitive Bid Quote Request from the Administrative Agent pursuant to may, in its sole discretion, submit a Competitive Bid Quote containing an offer or offers to make Competitive Bid Advances in response to such Competitive Bid Quote Request. Each Competitive Bid Quote must comply with the requirements of this and must be submitted to the Administrative Agent by telex or telecopy at its offices specified in or pursuant to not later than (x) 1:00 p.m. (Chicago time) at least three Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree); that Competitive Bid Quotes submitted by Bank One may be submitted, and may only be submitted, if the Administrative Agent or Bank One notifies the Borrower of the terms of the offer or offers contained therein not later than (x) one hour prior to the time all other Banks are required hereunder to submit Competitive Bid Quotes to the Administrative Agent, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) fifteen minutes prior to the time all other Banks are required hereunder to submit Competitive Bid Quotes to the Administrative Agent, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction. Subject to and , any Competitive Bid Quote so made shall be irrevocable except with the written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
Submission and Contents of Competitive Bid Quotes
Section 3.03
Section 3.04
Section 11.02
provided
Articles VI
IX
 
(b) Each Competitive Bid Quote shall be in substantially the form of hereto and shall in any case specify:
Exhibit 3.04
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall reject any Competitive Bid Quote that:
 
 
 
 
 
If any Competitive Bid Quote shall be rejected pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall notify the relevant Bank of such rejection as soon as practical.
Section 3.04(c)
 
SECTION 3.05. . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of the terms (i) of any Competitive Bid Quote submitted by a Bank that is in accordance with and (ii) of any Competitive Bid Quote submitted by a Bank which amends, modifies or is otherwise inconsistent with a previous Competitive Bid Quote submitted by such Bank with respect to the same Competitive Bid Quote Request. Any such subsequent Competitive Bid Quote shall be disregarded by the Administrative Agent unless such subsequent Competitive Bid Quote specifically states that it is submitted solely to correct a manifest error in such former Competitive Bid Quote. The Administrative Agent's notice to the Borrower shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances for which offers have been received for each Interest Period specified in the related Competitive Bid Quote Request and the respective principal amounts and Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, so offered.
Notice to the Borrower
Section 3.04
 
SECTION 3.06. . Not later than (x) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least two Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of a Eurocurrency Auction or a EURIBOR Auction or (y) 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction (or, in either case upon reasonable prior notice to the Banks, such other time and date as the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may agree), the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or non-acceptance of any or all of the offers so notified to it pursuant to ; , , that the failure by the Borrower to give such notice to the Administrative Agent with respect to any such offer shall be deemed to be a rejection of such offer. In the case of acceptance, such notice (a "") shall be substantially in the form of hereto and shall specify the aggregate principal amount of offers for each Interest Period that are accepted. The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid Quote in whole or in part; that:
Acceptance and Notice by the Borrower
Section 3.05
provided
however
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
Exhibit 3.06
provided
 
(a) the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Competitive Bid Quote Request,
 
(b) acceptance of offers may only be made on the basis of ascending Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, starting with the lowest and continuing with the next lowest until offers in the aggregate amount specified by the Borrower for acceptance shall have been accepted, and
 
(c) the Borrower may not accept any offer that is described in or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of this Agreement.
Section 3.04(c)
 
SECTION 3.07. . If offers are made by two or more Banks with the same Competitive Bid Margins or Absolute Rates, as the case may be, for a greater aggregate principal amount than the amount in respect of which offers remain to be accepted, as specified by the Borrower, for the related Interest Period (after giving effect to the acceptance of all offers made at lower rates), the principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances in respect of which such offers are accepted shall be allocated by the Administrative
Allocation by Administrative Agent
 
Agent among such Banks as nearly as possible (in such multiples, not greater than $5,000,000 (or the Approximate Equivalent Amount if denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars), as the Administrative Agent may deem appropriate) in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of such offers. Allocations by the Administrative Agent of the amounts of Competitive Bid Advances shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
 
SECTION 3.08. . The Administrative Agent shall (a) promptly following its receipt of a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and in any event not later than 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of its receipt of such Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, provide notice by telephone to each Bank that has made a Competitive Bid Quote of the extent to which its offer or offers have been accepted, specifying in such notice the principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance in respect of which such Competitive Bid Quote has been accepted, the Interest Period therefor and the Competitive Bid Margin or Absolute Rate therefor, as applicable and (b) promptly thereafter provide notice to such Banks by telex or telecopy confirming the same. If, pursuant to , the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree as to times for the delivery of a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing other than those set forth in , and shall notify the Banks thereof, such notice to the Banks shall set forth in addition any changes in the times set forth in this .
Notification of Acceptances to the Affected Banks
Section 3.06
Section 3.06
Section 3.08
 
SECTION 3.09. . Each Bank that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance in connection with any Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, (i) with respect to a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the first day of the Interest Period therefor specified in the notice from the Administrative Agent delivered pursuant to , deposit the amount of each of such Bank's Competitive Bid Advances in same day funds to the Administrative Agent's LS2 Incoming Clearing Account No. 4811-5286 (ABA No. 071000013), Reference: ASST (unless another account is designated by the Administrative Agent for such purpose), Reference: Baxter International Inc., maintained at 1 Bank One Plaza, Chicago, Illinois and (ii) with respect to a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars, before 12:00 Noon (local time) in the city of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office, on the first day of the Interest Period therefor specified in the notice from the Administrative Agent delivered pursuant to , deposit the amount of each of such Bank's Competitive Bid Advances in such funds as may then be customary for the settlement of international transactions in such Agreed Currency in the city of and at the address of the Administrative Agent's EURIBOR Lending Office. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make same day funds in the applicable currency or currencies and in the aggregate amount of such Competitive Bid Advances available to the Borrower within 30 minutes of demand (which may be by telephone) by the Borrower, at the Administrative Agent's address provided in . Promptly following each Competitive Bid Advance, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Bank of the amount thereof, the consequent Syndicated Reduction and the Interest Periods for such Competitive Bid Advances.
Funding of Competitive Bid Advances
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
Article VI
Section 11.02
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in reliance upon the representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrower herein set forth, each Issuing Bank hereby agrees to issue for the account of the Borrower through such Issuing Bank's branches as it and the Borrower may jointly agree, one or more Letters of Credit in accordance with this , from time to time during the period commencing on the date hereof and ending no later than five (5) Business Days prior to the Termination Date.
Obligation to Issue
Article IV
 
SECTION 4.02. . No Issuing Bank shall have any obligation to and no Issuing Bank shall:
Types and Amounts
 
 
 
SECTION 4.03. . (a) In addition to being subject to the satisfaction of the conditions contained in and , the obligation of an Issuing Bank to issue any Letter of Credit is subject to the satisfaction in full of the following conditions:
Conditions
Sections 6.01
6.02
 
 
 
or expense which was not applicable, in effect and known to the Issuing Bank as of the date of this Agreement and which the Issuing Bank in good faith deems material to it.
 
(b) No Issuing Bank shall extend, renew, or amend any Letter of Credit unless the requirements of this are met as though a new Letter of Credit were then being requested and issued.
Section 4.03
 
SECTION 4.04. . (a) Prior to the issuance of each Letter of Credit, and as a condition of such issuance, the Borrower shall deliver to the Issuing Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) an L/C Application signed by the Borrower, together with such other documents or items as may be required pursuant to the terms thereof. Unless the Issuing Bank shall otherwise agree, each Letter of Credit shall be issued no earlier than two (2) Business Days after delivery of the foregoing documents, which delivery may be by the Borrower to the Issuing Bank by facsimile transmission, telex or other electronic means followed by delivery of executed originals within five (5) days thereafter. The documents so delivered shall be in compliance with the requirements set forth in and 4.03, and shall specify therein (i) the stated amount of the Letter of Credit requested, (ii) the effective date of issuance of such requested Letter of Credit, which shall be a Business Day, (iii) the date on which such requested Letter of Credit is to expire, which shall be a Business Day not later than five (5) Business Days prior to the Termination Date and (iv) the aggregate amount of L/C Obligations which are outstanding and which will be outstanding after giving effect to the requested Letter of Credit issuance. Subject to the terms and conditions of and , and provided that the applicable conditions set forth in and shall, to the knowledge of the Issuing Bank, have been satisfied, the Issuing Bank shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with the Issuing Bank's usual and customary business practices. In addition, any amendment of an existing Letter of Credit that has the effect of increasing the face amount thereof or extending the expiration date thereof shall be deemed to be an issuance of a new Letter of Credit and shall be subject to the requirements of this .
Procedure for Issuance of Letters of Credit
sections 4.02
Sections 4.02
4.03
Sections 6.01
6.02
Section 4.04
 
(b) The applicable Issuing Bank shall give the Administrative Agent written or telex notice, or telephonic notice confirmed promptly thereafter in writing, of the issuance of a Letter of Credit; , , that the failure to provide such notice shall not result in any liability on the part of such Issuing Bank.
provided
however
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in any L/C Application or any document executed in connection therewith to the contrary, in the event any term or provision of such L/C Application or other document is inconsistent with any term or provision of this Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control and prevail.
 
SECTION 4.05. . Unless a Bank shall have notified the Issuing Bank, prior to its issuance of a Letter of Credit, that any applicable condition precedent set forth in or had not then been satisfied, immediately upon the issuance of each other Letter of Credit hereunder, each Bank shall be deemed to have automatically, irrevocably and unconditionally purchased and received from the applicable Issuing Bank an undivided interest and participation in and to such Letter of Credit, the
Letter of Credit Participation
Section 6.01
6.02
 
obligations of the Borrower in respect thereof, and the liability of such Issuing Bank thereunder (collectively, as to each Bank, an "") in an amount equal to the amount available for drawing under such Letter of Credit multiplied by such Bank's pro rata share of the Aggregate Commitments. Each Issuing Bank will notify each Bank that has a Commitment promptly upon presentation to it of an L/C Draft or upon any other draw under a Letter of Credit. On or before the Business Day on which an Issuing Bank makes payment of each such L/C Draft or, in the case of any other draw on a Letter of Credit, on demand by the Administrative Agent, each Bank shall make payment to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, in immediately available funds in an amount equal to the amount of the payment under the L/C Draft or other draw on the Letter of Credit multiplied by such Bank's pro rata share of the Aggregate Commitments. The obligation of each Bank to reimburse the Issuing Banks under this shall be unconditional, continuing, irrevocable and absolute without counterclaim or set-off; , , the obligation of each Bank shall not extend to payments made under a Letter of Credit resulting from the Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct in honoring any L/C Draft. In the event that any Bank fails to make payment to the Administrative Agent of any amount due under this , the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to receive, retain and apply against such obligation the principal and interest otherwise payable to such Bank hereunder until the Administrative Agent receives such payment from such Bank or such obligation is otherwise fully satisfied; , , that nothing contained in this sentence shall relieve such Bank of its obligation to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank for such amount in accordance with this .
L/C Interest
Section 4.05
provided
however
Section 4.05
provided
however
Section 4.05
 
SECTION 4.06. . The Borrower agrees unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely to pay immediately to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Banks which have Commitments, the amount of each drawing made under or pursuant to a Letter of Credit (such obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the Administrative Agent for a drawing made under a Letter of Credit being hereinafter referred to as a "" with respect to such Letter of Credit) plus all other charges and expenses with respect thereto specified in or in the applicable L/C Application. If the Borrower at any time fails to repay a Reimbursement Obligation pursuant to this , the Borrower shall be deemed to have elected to borrow under a Syndicated Borrowing, as of the date of the drawing giving rise to the Reimbursement Obligation and equal in amount to the amount of the unpaid Reimbursement Obligation. Such Syndicated Borrowing shall be made automatically, without notice and without any requirement to satisfy the conditions precedent otherwise applicable to a Syndicated Borrowing. Such Syndicated Borrowing shall be comprised of Base Rate Advances made by the Banks, each Advance being in the amount of the portion of the related drawing that shall have been funded by the applicable Bank. The proceeds of such Syndicated Borrowing shall be used to repay such Reimbursement Obligation.
Reimbursement Obligation
Reimbursement Obligation
Section 4.07
Section 4.06
 
SECTION 4.07. . In addition to the fees described in , the Borrower agrees to pay to each Issuing Bank, (i) on the date of issuance of each Letter of Credit (or on such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank), a fronting fee in respect of such Letter of Credit in an amount as shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank prior to such date of issuance, and (ii) all reasonable and customary fees and other issuance, amendment, document examination, negotiation and presentment expenses and related charges in connection with the issuance, amendment, presentation of L/C Drafts, and the like customarily charged by the Issuing
Issuing Bank Charges
Section 5.04(c)
 
Banks with respect to Letters of Credit, including, without limitation, standard commissions, payable promptly following delivery to the Borrower of each invoice in respect of any such amount.
 
SECTION 4.08. . In addition to the notices required by , each Issuing Bank shall, no later than the tenth Business Day following the last day of each month, provide to the Administrative Agent, upon the Administrative Agent's request, schedules, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, showing the date of issue, account party, amount, expiration date and the reference number of each Letter of Credit issued by it outstanding at any time during such month and the aggregate amount payable by the Borrower during such month. In addition, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of any Letter of Credit to which the Issuing Bank is party and such other documentation as may reasonably be requested by the Administrative Agent. Upon the request of any Bank, the Administrative Agent will provide to such Bank information concerning such Letters of Credit.
Issuing Bank Reporting Requirements
Section 4.04(c)
 
SECTION 4.09. . (a) In addition to amounts payable as elsewhere provided in this , the Borrower hereby agrees to protect, indemnify, pay and save harmless the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Bank from and against any and all liabilities and costs which the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or such Bank may incur or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (i) the issuance of any Letter of Credit other than as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing Bank, or (ii) the failure of the applicable Issuing Bank to honor a drawing under a Letter of Credit as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful, of any present or future or Governmental Authority (all such acts or omissions herein called "").
Indemnification; Exoneration
Article IV
de jure
de facto
Governmental Acts
 
(b) As among the Borrower, the Banks, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks, the Borrower assumes all risks of the acts and omissions of, or misuse of each Letter of Credit by, the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, neither the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank nor any Bank shall be responsible for (unless caused by its gross negligence or willful misconduct): (i) the form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effect of any document submitted by any party in connection with the application for and issuance of the Letters of Credit, even if it should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (ii) the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (iii) failure of the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit to comply duly with conditions required in order to draw upon such Letter of Credit; (iv) errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any messages, by mail, cable, telegraph, telex, or other similar form of teletransmission or otherwise; (v) errors in interpretation of technical trade terms; (vi) any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under any Letter of Credit or of the proceeds thereof; (vii) the misapplication by the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit of the proceeds of any drawing under such Letter of Credit; and (viii) any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Banks, including, without limitation, any Governmental Acts. None of the above shall affect, impair, or prevent the vesting of any Issuing Bank's rights or powers under this .
Section 4.09
 
(c) In furtherance and extension and not in limitation of the specific provisions hereinabove set forth, any action taken or omitted by any Issuing Bank under or in connection with the Letters of Credit or any related certificates shall not, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, put the applicable Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent or any Bank under any resulting liability to the Borrower or relieve the Borrower of any of its obligations hereunder to any such Person.
 
(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in this shall survive the payment in full of the Advances and other obligations hereunder, the termination of the Letters of Credit and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 4.09
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. . The obligation of each Bank to extend an Advance on the date therefor is subject to the following:
Illegality; Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair
 
(a) If, after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Eurocurrency Lending Office or its EURIBOR Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Bank (or its Eurocurrency Lending Office or its EURIBOR Lending Office) to make, maintain or fund its Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, such Bank shall so notify the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and such Bank shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other Banks and the Borrower, whereupon until such Bank notifies the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such Bank to make (or to Convert other Advances into) Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, shall be suspended and each Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, which such Bank shall thereafter be required to make hereunder (or Convert into) shall be made as (or Converted into) a Base Rate Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made (or Converted) on the same day and have the same Interest Period as the Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances made (or Converted into) by the other Banks and comprising the balance of such Borrowing. If such Bank (A) shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and fund any of its outstanding Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances to maturity, (B) shall so specify in a written notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (C) if at such time fewer than three Banks shall have reached a similar determination, shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent an opinion of counsel concurring in such determination, the Borrower shall immediately Convert in full the then outstanding principal amount of each such Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance into a Base Rate Advance in an equal principal amount (on which interest and principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances of the other Banks).
 
(b) If, with respect to Borrowings to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, (i) the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto) that by reason of circumstances affecting generally either the London interbank market or the Brussels euro-zone interbank market, as applicable, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the interest rate applicable to either the Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, or (ii) by the Eurocurrency Business Day or the EURIBOR Business Day, as applicable, before the first day of any Interest Period in respect of a Borrowing to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Majority Banks (or, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, Banks selected to make at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount of such Advances) that deposits in the applicable Agreed Currency are not available to such Banks (as conclusively certified in writing to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower) in the ordinary course of business in the London interbank market or the Brussels euro-zone interbank market, as applicable, in sufficient amounts to make its Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, then, in each case, the Administrative Agent shall by 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on such Business Day notify the Borrower of such event, and the right of the Borrower to select Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, for such Borrowing or any subsequent Borrowing (and the right of the Borrower to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances, as applicable) shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. The obligation of the Banks to make Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, in connection with such Notice of Borrowing shall thereupon terminate, and each Bank obligated to participate in such Borrowing shall extend a Base Rate Advance to the Borrower in lieu of the originally requested Type of Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made on the date specified in the original Notice of Borrowing and shall have an Interest Period which is co-extensive with the Interest Period originally requested. In the case of an outstanding Notice of Interest Rate Election at the time any such suspension shall occur, such Notice shall be deemed amended, without any further action on the part of the Borrower, to request that the Syndicated Advances specified therein be Converted to Base Rate Advances.
 
(c) If the Majority Banks (or, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances or EURIBOR Bid Rate Advances, Banks selected to make at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount of such Advances) shall, by 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the Eurocurrency Business Day or the EURIBOR Business Day, as applicable, before the first day of any Interest Period in respect of a Borrowing to consist of Eurocurrency Advances or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (setting forth in writing the reasons therefor) that the Eurocurrency Rate for Eurocurrency Advances and/or the EURIBOR for EURIBOR Advances comprising such Borrowing will not adequately reflect the cost to such Banks of making or funding their respective Advances for such Borrowing or Conversion, the right of the Borrower to select Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, for such Borrowing or Conversion and any subsequent Borrowing or Conversion shall be suspended until the
 
Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. The obligation of the Banks to make Eurocurrency Advances and/or EURIBOR Advances, as applicable, in connection with such Notice of Borrowing shall thereupon terminate and each Bank obligated to participate in such Borrowing shall extend a Base Rate Advance to the Borrower in lieu of the originally requested Type of Advance, which Base Rate Advance shall be made on the date specified in the original Notice of Borrowing and shall have an Interest Period which is co-extensive with the Interest Period originally requested. In the case of an outstanding Notice of Interest Rate Election at the time any such suspension shall occur, such Notice shall be deemed amended, without any further action on the part of the Borrower, to request that the Syndicated Advances specified therein be Converted to Base Rate Advances.
 
SECTION 5.02. . (a) Subject to , each Notice of Borrowing and Notice of Interest Rate Election shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the event that a Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election is made by telephone and the written confirmation thereof differs in any respect from such telephone notice, the information contained in the telephone notice or the written confirmation, as the case may be, upon which the Administrative Agent shall have relied, as evidenced by its corresponding notice to the Banks, shall control for purposes of Advances to be made or Converted under this Agreement.
Effect of Notice of Borrowing; Maximum Number of Borrowings
Section 5.01
 
(b) A Notice of Borrowing shall be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Banks shall have no obligation to extend any Advances that may be requested in such Notice of Borrowing, if after giving effect to the Borrowing requested in such Notice of Borrowing there would then be more than fifteen Borrowings outstanding (whether Syndicated Borrowings, Competitive Bid Borrowings, or any combination of the foregoing).
 
SECTION 5.03. . (a) In the case of any Borrowing which the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Fixed Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Bank against all direct out-of-pocket losses and reasonable expenses incurred by such Bank as a result of any failure by the Borrower to fulfill on or before the date specified for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in to the extent of all direct out-of-pocket losses and reasonable expenses incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Bank to fund the Advance to be made by such Bank as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date. The Borrower shall not be liable to any Bank under this with respect to consequential damages arising or incurred by such Bank in connection with the Borrower's failure to fulfill timely the applicable conditions set forth in .
Effect of Failure to Borrow or Fund
Article VI
Section 5.03(a)
Article VI
 
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing (or, in the case of any Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances, prior to 12:00 Noon (Chicago time) on the date of such Borrowing) that such Bank will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Bank's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Bank has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with the terms of or , as applicable, and the Administrative Agent may, in
Section 2.02
Section 3.09
 
reliance upon such assumption make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(c) The failure of any Bank to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Bank of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make the Advance to be made by such other Bank on the date of any Borrowing.
 
SECTION 5.04. . (a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a facility fee at the respective rates per annum set forth below on the average daily amount of such Bank's Commitment. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the publicly announced ratings ("") by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Fees and Certain Credit Rating Determinations
Facility Fees
Credit Ratings
 
 
The facility fee described in this shall accrue from and including the date hereof to but excluding the Termination Date or, in the case of any Bank, the earlier date of reduction to zero of such Bank's Commitment hereunder, and shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(a)
 
(b) . For purposes of determining the applicable facility fee, utilization fee and letter of credit fees with respect to any period and the Eurocurrency Margin and EURIBOR Margin at any time:
Credit Rating Determinations
 
 
 
 
 
(c) . In addition to the fees described in , the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a letter of credit fee, in respect of any period, at the respective rates per annum set forth below, on the average daily aggregate amount of such Bank's L/C Interest in respect of all Letters of Credit outstanding during such period. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the Credit Ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Letter of Credit Fees
Section 4.07
 
 
The letter of credit fee described in this for letters of credit shall accrue from and including the date of initial issuance to but excluding the Termination Date or, in the case of any Bank, the earlier date of reduction to zero of such Bank's Commitment hereunder, and shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(c)
 
(d) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a utilization fee during each period specified below at the respective rates per annum set forth below on the sum during the applicable period of the average daily amount of such Bank's outstanding Advances and the average daily amount of such Bank's L/C Interest. The applicable rate for any period shall be determined on the basis of the Credit Ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures during such period, the applicable rate to change when and as such Credit Ratings change.
Utilization Fees
 
 
The utilization fee described in this shall accrue during any period that (and only so long as) the sum of (i) the aggregate Dollar Amount of outstanding Advances and L/C Obligations under this Agreement and (ii) the aggregate Dollar Amount of outstanding "Advances" (including Term Loans) under (and as defined in) the 364-Day Credit Agreement shall exceed an amount equal to 50% of the sum of the aggregate Commitments under this Agreement and the aggregate "Commitments" under (and as defined in) the 364-Day Credit Agreement; that in the event a Term Loan shall be outstanding under the 364-Day Credit Agreement, "Commitments" in respect of that facility shall be the "Commitments" that shall have been in effect thereunder immediately prior to the Revolving Credit Termination Date. The utilization fee shall be payable quarterly during the term of each Bank's Commitment hereunder, in arrears, not later than the last day of each January, April, July and October, and, in the case of each Bank, on the date such Bank's Commitment shall be reduced to zero.
Section 5.04(d)
provided
 
SECTION 5.05. . The Borrower may, upon at least three (3) Business Days' written notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the respective Commitments of the Banks; that (i) any such reduction shall not cause the Aggregate Commitments to be less than the Facility Usage at such time, and (ii) in the case of any partial reduction of the Commitments, such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount not less than the lesser of (A) $20,000,000 (or an integral multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof) (or the Approximate Equivalent Amounts thereof if denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars) and (B) the amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceeds the Facility Usage at such time.
Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
SECTION 5.06. . Each Syndicated Advance shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable, on the Termination Date. Each Competitive Bid Advance shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable, on the last day of the Interest Period therefor.
Repayment
 
SECTION 5.07. . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance made by each Bank from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full at the following rates per annum:
Interest
 
(a) . If such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the Base Rate in effect from time to time, payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of January, April, July and October and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
 
(b) . If such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Eurocurrency Margin (such rate to change when and as the Eurocurrency Margin changes), payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on the date during such Interest Period which occurs three months after the first day of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
 
"" means, at any time with respect to each Eurocurrency Rate Advance outstanding at such time (for any Advance in any Agreed Currency other than Euro), the applicable rate per annum set forth in the table below, determined in accordance with on the basis of the Credit Ratings by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures at such time:
Eurocurrency Margin
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
(c) . If such Advance is a EURIBOR Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to EURIBOR for such Interest Period the EURIBOR Margin (such rate to change when and as the EURIBOR Margin changes), payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on the date during such Interest Period which occurs three months after the first day of such Interest Period.
EURIBOR Rate Advances
plus
 
"" means, at any time with respect to each EURIBOR Rate Advance outstanding at such time (for any Advance in Euro), the applicable rate per annum set forth in the table below, determined in accordance with on the basis of the Credit Ratings by Moody's and S&P on the Borrower's senior unsecured Debentures at such time:
EURIBOR Margin
Section 5.04(b)
 
 
(d) . Subject to , if such Advance is a Competitive Bid Advance, a rate per annum equal (i) in the case of an Absolute Rate Advance, to the Absolute Rate that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, to the Eurocurrency Bid Rate calculated on the basis of the Competitive Bid Margin that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, and (iii) in the case of a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, to the EURIBOR Bid Rate calculated on the basis of the Competitive Bid Margin that shall have been offered by such Bank pursuant to in its Competitive Bid Quote related thereto and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing related thereto, in each case payable on the last day of the applicable Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than 90 days or three months, as the case may be, on each day which occurs during such Interest Period every 90 days or three months, as the case may be, from the first day of such Interest Period.
Competitive Bid Advances
Section 5.01
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
Section 3.04
Section 3.06
 
SECTION 5.08. . The Borrower shall pay to each Bank, so long as such Bank shall be required under regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Advance and/or EURIBOR Advance, as applicable, of such Bank, from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurocurrency Rate or EURIBOR, as applicable, for such Interest Period from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing the applicable rate referred to in clause (i) above by that percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage of such Bank for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Bank and notified in writing to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent. Such determination shall be binding for all purposes in the absence of manifest error; that no challenge to such determination may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery of such notification to the Borrower.
Additional Interest on Eurocurrency Advances and EURIBOR Advances
provided
 
SECTION 5.09. . If any amount of principal is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), that amount of principal shall bear interest, from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the Base Rate in effect from time to time.
Interest on Overdue Principal
 
SECTION 5.10. . The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to (i) the Borrower and the Banks, of any applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of and the applicable interest rate under and and (ii) the Borrower and each Bank that is to make a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance or a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance in connection with any Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, of the applicable rate, if any, determined by the Administrative Agent for determining the applicable Eurocurrency Bid Rate or EURIBOR Bid Rate with respect to such Advance.
Interest Rate Determinations
Section 5.07
Section 5.07(b)
Section 5.07(c)
 
SECTION 5.11. . Each Bank shall use commercially reasonable efforts to keep apprised of all events and circumstances (a) that would excuse or prohibit such Bank from performing its obligation to make (or to Convert Advances into) Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances hereunder pursuant to or (b) that would permit such Bank to demand increased costs pursuant to . Such Bank shall, as soon as practicable after becoming aware of any such event or circumstance, use commercially reasonable efforts, to the extent permitted by law, to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances through another office or lending office, and with respect to increased costs, to reduce such increased costs (if the use of such other office or lending office or such reduction would not adversely affect the performance of such obligations or repayment of the Advances or result in any increased cost, loss, liability or other disadvantage to such Bank in such Bank's reasonable judgment), in either case if by taking the action contemplated by the foregoing, such event or circumstance would cease to exist.
Performance of Banks' Obligations
Section 5.01(a)
Section 5.13
 
SECTION 5.12. . (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, given not later than 9:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the proposed date of prepayment by telephone (to be confirmed immediately in writing), telecopier or telex, stating in such notice the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given, the Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Syndicated Advances made as part of the same Syndicated Borrowing in whole or, in the case of a Syndicated Borrowing comprised solely of Base Rate Advances, ratably in part, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid together with accrued interest thereon and other amounts then due and owing, if any, hereunder to the date of prepayment; that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount not less than $20,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof (or the Approximate Equivalent Amount if such Syndicated Advances to be so prepaid are denominated in Agreed Currencies other than Dollars). Each such optional prepayment shall be applied to prepay ratably the Syndicated Advances of the several Banks included in such Syndicated Borrowing. If the Borrower prepays any Syndicated Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or EURIBOR Rate Advances on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period therefor, the Borrower shall reimburse each Bank for the losses, costs and expenses contemplated in . The Borrower may not, unless otherwise required hereunder, prepay any Competitive Bid Advance without the consent of the Bank which shall have extended such Competitive Bid Advance.
Optional Prepayments
provided
Section 11.04(b)
 
(b) Upon receipt of a notice of prepayment pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's ratable share, if any, of such prepayment. In the event the Borrower and a Bank agree to the prepayment to such Bank of a Competitive Bid Advance, and such prepayment is made, the Borrower thereupon shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the other Banks thereof.
Section 5.12
 
SECTION 5.13. . Subject to , if:
Increased Costs
Section 5.11
 
(a) due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements included in the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Bank of agreeing or committing to make or making, funding or maintaining any Advances hereunder or issuing or participating in any Letters of Credit (including, without limitation any conversion of an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Euro into an Advance denominated in Euro); or
 
(b) either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law, rule, regulation or guideline adopted after the date hereof and arising out of the July 1988 report of the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards" or (ii) compliance by any Bank with any law or regulation, or with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Bank or any corporation controlling such Bank and such Bank determines that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, or upon the making or funding of its Advances hereunder or upon the issuing or maintaining of its L/C Interest hereunder (including, without limitation any conversion of an Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than Euro into an Advance denominated in Euro),
 
then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon 15 days' written demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Bank additional amounts sufficient to (i) in the case of any of the events described in above, reimburse such Bank for such increased cost, such increased cost to be determined by such Bank using its customary methods therefor (and, if such Bank uses from time to time more than one such method, the method chosen for application hereunder shall be that method which most accurately determines such increased cost), and (ii) in the case of any of the events described in above, compensate such Bank in light of such circumstances, to the extent such Bank reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend or maintain Advances or to issue or maintain its L/C Interests hereunder. A certificate as to any such amount (demonstrating, in reasonable detail, the calculations used by such Bank to determine such amount), submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Bank, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes in the absence of manifest error; that no challenge to such determination may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery of such notification to the Borrower.
clause (a)
clause (b)
provided
 
SECTION 5.14. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment of principal or interest in respect of any Advance or under any Notes not later than 12:00 noon (local time) on the day when due and in the currency in which such Advance was
Payments and Computations
 
made to the Borrower, to the Administrative Agent in same day funds and without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction; all other payments hereunder or under the Notes shall be made in Dollars. All payments hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent at (except as set forth in the next sentence) the Administrative Agent's address specified in , or at any other Applicable Lending Office of the Administrative Agent specified in writing by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, and, in the case of Syndicated Borrowings, shall be applied ratably by the Administrative Agent among the Banks. All payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder in any currency other than Dollars shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its Eurocurrency Office or EURIBOR Lending Office, as applicable for such currency. The Administrative Agent is hereby authorized to charge the Borrower's account with the Administrative Agent, after notice to the Borrower of the amount to be charged, for each payment of principal, interest and fees as such payment becomes due. The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to such payment ratably (in accordance with all like obligations then due and payable to which such payment relates) to the Banks for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Bank, to such Bank for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 11.02
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , if, after the making of any Advance in any currency other than Dollars, currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues such currency with the result that the type of currency in which the Advance was made (the "") no longer exists or the Borrower is not able to make payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Banks in such Original Currency, then all payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder in such currency shall instead be made when due in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar Amount (as of the date of repayment) of such payment due, it being the intention of the parties hereto that the Borrower take all risks of the imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations.
Section 5.14
Original Currency
 
(c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall, to the extent such Base Rate is determined by reference to the Prime Rate, be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all other calculations of interest, facility fees, utilization fees and letter of credit fees shall be made on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes in the absence of manifest error. No challenge to any determination by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this subsection may be made by the Borrower after the sixtieth day following delivery to the Borrower of written notification of such determination.
 
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under any Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or facility fee, as the case may be. If such extension would cause such payment with respect to a Eurocurrency Advance or EURIBOR Advance to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding applicable Business Day and the period of time during which such payment would have been outstanding but for compliance with this provision shall not be included in the computation of payment of interest with respect thereto.
 
(e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Banks hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank until the date such Bank repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
 
SECTION 5.15. . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under any Notes shall be made, in accordance with , free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , (i) in the case of each Bank and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on any of its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof, and (ii) in the case of each Bank, taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Bank's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities, less the exclusions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above, being hereinafter referred to as "").
Taxes
Section 5.14
excluding
Taxes
 
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise (i) from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes to any Applicable Lending Office listed on or to any lending or other office established pursuant to or otherwise in accordance with this Agreement with respect to Advances made or to be made under this Agreement or (ii) from the execution or delivery of this Agreement or the Notes or any amendment hereto or thereto (hereinafter referred to as "").
Schedule 1.02
Section 5.11
Other Taxes
 
(c) The Borrower will indemnify each Bank and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this ) incurred by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) or any liability incurred by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) (including penalties and interest unless caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor, which demand shall demonstrate, in reasonable detail, the circumstances concerning the imposition of, and the calculations used to determine, such Taxes or Other Taxes.
Section 5.15
 
(d) Each Bank that is not a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) shall submit to the Borrower, on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement, duly completed and signed copies of (i) either Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Bank and entitling it to a complete exemption from withholding on all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) or Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) of the United States Internal Revenue Service and Form W-8 or W-9, as the case may be (relating to the exemption from United States federal income tax backup withholding) or (ii) if the Bank is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code and does not comply with the requirements of clause (i) above, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of (any such certificate, a "") and (y) two accurate and complete original signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto. Thereafter and from time to time, each such Bank shall submit to the Borrower such additional duly completed and signed copies of one or the other of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may be (i) requested by the Borrower from such Bank and (ii) required under then current United States law or regulations to avoid United States withholding taxes on payments in respect of all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement or the Advances. Upon the request of the Borrower, each Bank that is a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) shall submit to the Borrower promptly following the Borrower's request therefor a certificate to the effect that it is such a United States person and certification of its taxpayer identification number on Form W-9. If any Bank determines, as a result of any change in applicable law, regulation or treaty, or in any official application or interpretation thereof, that it is unable to submit to the Borrower any form or certificate that such Bank is obligated to submit pursuant to this subsection, or that such Bank is required to withdraw or cancel any such form or certificate previously submitted, such Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such fact; , , that delivery of such notice shall not preclude the exercise by such Bank of any of its rights under this . No amount that shall be required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to , or of this shall be payable by the Borrower to any Bank that (i) is not, on the date this Agreement is executed by such Bank, either (x) required to submit Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Bank and entitling it to a complete exemption from withholding on all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) or Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all amounts to be received by such Bank at any Applicable Lending Office designated by such Bank, including fees, pursuant to this Agreement and the Advances) and a , as the case may be, or (y) a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code), or (ii) shall have failed to submit to the Borrower any form or certificate that such Bank shall have been required to file pursuant to this subsection and shall have been entitled to file under applicable law.
Code
Exhibit 5.15(d)
Section 5.15(d)(ii) Certificate
provided
however
Section 5.15
subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
Section 5.15
Section 5.15(d)(ii) Certificate
 
SECTION 5.16. . (a) Each Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the
Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness
 
indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from each Advance made by such Bank from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank from time hereunder.
 
(b) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Advance made hereunder, the currency in which such Advance is denominated and Type thereof and the Interest Period with respect thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Bank hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Bank's share thereof.
 
(c) The entries maintained in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the Advances therein recorded; , that the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Bank to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Borrowings in accordance with their terms.
prima
facie
provided
,
however
 
(d) Any Bank may request that its Advances be evidenced by a promissory note (each a ""). In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Bank a Note or separate Notes evidencing such Syndicated Advances and Competitive Bid Advances, at such Bank's request, payable to the order of such Bank in a form or forms supplied by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Advances evidenced by such Note or Notes and interest thereon shall at all times (including after any assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein or any assignee pursuant to , except to the extent that any such Bank or assignee subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation and requests that such Advances once again be evidenced as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Note
Section 11.06
Section 11.06
 
SECTION 5.17. . If any Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of any Advance made by it or any L/C Interest in excess of its ratable share of all payments obtained by Banks on account of, as applicable, the Advances comprising the Borrowing (whether the Borrowing to which it shall be applied is a Syndicated Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing) to which such Advance relates or in respect of the Letter of Credit to which such L/C Interest relates, such Bank shall forthwith purchase from the other Banks which shall then have Advances outstanding comprising a part of such Borrowing participations in the Advances comprising a part of such Borrowing (or, as applicable, purchase from the other Banks participations in the L/C Interests in the related Letter of Credit) as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank to share the excess payment (net of any expenses which may be incurred by such Bank in obtaining or preserving such excess payment) ratably with respect to such Borrowing or Letter of Credit with each of such other Banks. If all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Bank, such purchase from each selling Bank shall be rescinded and such selling Bank shall repay to the purchasing Bank the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such selling Bank's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such selling Bank's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so
Sharing of Payments, Etc
 
recovered from the purchasing Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Bank so purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Bank were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. Nothing contained herein shall require any Bank to exercise any right it may have of set-off, bankers' lien, counterclaim or similar right or shall affect the right of any Bank to exercise, and retain the benefits of exercising, any such right with respect to any other indebtedness or obligation of the Borrower not evidenced by this Agreement or the Notes. If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, any Bank obtains a secured claim in lieu of a set-off or other payment to which this would apply, such Bank shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the Banks entitled under this to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim.
Section 5.17
Section 5.17
Section 5.17
 
SECTION 5.18. . (a) In addition to the right of the Borrower to terminate in whole or reduce ratably the unused portion of the Commitments as described in and the right of the Borrower to ratably prepay Advances as described in , the Borrower shall have the right to terminate the unused portion of the Commitment of any Bank and to prepay all outstanding Advances made by such Bank in the manner described in this if the Borrower shall have received notice (a "") that such Bank (i) cannot extend a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and/or EURIBOR Rate Advance and shall exercise its rights pursuant to , (ii) claims reimbursement for increased costs or reduced returns pursuant to or (iii) claims reimbursement for Taxes or Other Taxes pursuant to .
Termination and Prepayment with Respect to any Bank
Section 5.05
Section 5.12
Section 5.18
Special Notice
Section 5.01(a)
Section 5.13
Section 5.15
 
(b) Upon receipt by the Borrower of a Special Notice from any Bank, the Borrower may elect to terminate the unused portion of the Commitment of such Bank by giving notice thereof (a "") to such Bank and to the Administrative Agent on or before the thirtieth day following the date of such Special Notice, specifying therein (i) the name of such Bank (""), (ii) the proposed effective date of termination ("") of the unused portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment, which date shall not in any event be less than five Business Days following the date of such Termination Notice, (iii) one or more commercial banks (each, a ""), each such Successor Bank having a combined capital, surplus (or its equivalent) and undivided profits in an amount not less than U.S. $500,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency), which Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have agreed, in the aggregate, to succeed to the entire Commitment of such Terminated Bank on the Bank Termination Date.
Termination Notice
Terminated Bank
Bank Termination Date
Successor Bank
 
(c) Unless the Borrower shall have elected, as evidenced by its Termination Notice, to prepay all the Advances made by a Terminated Bank outstanding as of the Bank Termination Date, any Advance (each a "") made by such Terminated Bank having an Interest Period ending after the Bank Termination Date shall remain outstanding until the last day of such Interest Period (unless required to be paid earlier in accordance with the terms of this Agreement). On the last day of the then current Interest Period in respect of each TB Advance, the Successor Bank shall extend an Advance to the Borrower in a principal amount corresponding to such TB Advance, and having an Interest Period of the type specified in the Notice of Interest Rate Election that would otherwise have applied to such TB Advance, and the
TB Advance
 
proceeds of such Advance from the Successor Bank shall be used by the Borrower to repay such TB Advance to the Terminated Bank. The Successor Bank or Successor Banks specified by the Borrower in a Termination Notice shall have agreed, prior to the Bank Termination Date, to succeed, in the aggregate, to the entire Commitment of such Terminated Bank on the Bank Termination Date which succession shall, with respect to the unused portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment as of such Bank Termination Date, become effective as of the Bank Termination Date and, with respect to the remaining portion of such Terminated Bank's Commitment, become effective as and when such Terminated Bank's Advances are repaid.
 
(d) If the Borrower shall have elected, as evidenced by its Termination Notice, to prepay all the Advances made by a Terminated Bank outstanding as of the Bank Termination Date, the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall in the aggregate extend to the Borrower, on the Bank Termination Date, Advances (with interest at a rate to be agreed upon by the Borrower and each Successor Bank) corresponding in respective amounts to each Advance being prepaid as of such date, each of which Advances shall have an Interest Period beginning on the Bank Termination Date and ending on the last day of the Interest Period of the Advance being prepaid to which it corresponds; that, upon the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) and notice thereof to the Administrative Agent, the Borrower may elect not to require the Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) to extend Competitive Bid Advances in substitution for the Competitive Bid Advances extended by the Terminated Bank.
provided
 
(e) Each such termination pursuant to this shall be effective on the Bank Termination Date proposed by the Borrower in the related Termination Notice if (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred prior to such date and be continuing on such date, (ii) in the event the Borrower shall have elected to prepay all Advances made by such Terminated Bank outstanding as of such date, (A) the Borrower shall have prepaid the outstanding aggregate amount of all Advances made by the Terminated Bank, together with accrued interest to such date on the amount prepaid and all other amounts payable to such Bank as of such date and (B) the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have extended to the Borrower Advances equal in aggregate amount to the Advances of the Terminated Bank being prepaid as required pursuant to , and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that the Successor Bank or Successor Banks shall have agreed in the aggregate to succeed to the entire Commitment of the Terminated Bank in accordance with this . On a Bank Termination Date, the applicable Successor Bank (or Successor Banks, as applicable) shall succeed to the L/C Interests of the Terminated Bank, and the Terminated Bank shall thereafter cease to have any L/C Interest or any participation in, or liability for any drawings made under, any Letter of Credit.
Section 5.18
Section 5.18(d)
Section 5.18
 
(f) Subject to above, on the Bank Termination Date, (i) each Successor Bank shall become a party to this Agreement as if such Successor Bank shall have been named on the signature pages hereof, and such Successor Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of a "Bank" hereunder and (ii) the Terminated Bank shall have no further Commitment under this Agreement (other than with respect to Advances, if any, made by such Bank which remain outstanding after such date) and shall no longer be a "Bank" under this Agreement for any purpose (other than with respect to Advances made by such Bank which remain outstanding after such date) except insofar as it shall be entitled to any payment or
subsection (e)
 
indemnification, or be obligated to make any indemnification, on account of any event which shall have occurred, or any right or liability which shall have arisen, on or prior to the date of repayment of such outstanding Advances. The termination of any Bank's Commitment and the prepayment of such Bank's Advances pursuant to this shall not relieve or satisfy the obligations of the Borrower to make any such prepayments free and clear of all Taxes, to reimburse such Bank for all Other Taxes and for all increased costs pursuant to , or to comply with all other terms and conditions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, ). A Successor Bank shall be subject to the Syndicated Reduction (or, in the case of more than one Successor Bank, its ratable share of the Syndicated Reduction) of the Terminated Bank it succeeds upon the Bank Termination Date applicable to such successor.
Section 5.18
Section 5.13
Section 11.04
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. . The obligation of each Bank to make its initial Advance or for an Issuing Bank to issue the initial Letter of Credit hereunder (whichever shall first be requested by the Borrower) is subject to the condition precedent that the Administrative Agent shall have received all of the following, each of which shall be dated the date of such First Borrowing and shall be in sufficient copies for each Bank:
Conditions Precedent to the First Borrowing
 
(a) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and any Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action with respect to this Agreement and any Notes.
 
(b) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and any Notes and the other documents or certificates to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(c) A certificate, signed by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, stating that as of the date thereof all conditions to the First Borrowing have been satisfied and that no Event of Default or event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
(d) A favorable opinion of (i) the General Counsel of the Borrower, and (ii) Sidley Austin Brown & Wood, special counsel to the Borrower, or other counsel to the Borrower (who also may be an employee of the Borrower) acceptable to the Administrative Agent, in its reasonable judgment, each opinion to be substantially in the respective form set forth in hereto, and additional opinions (which, to the extent such opinions do not pertain to the legality, validity or enforceability of the Borrower's performance under this Agreement, need not be favorable) as to such other matters concerning the Borrower's legal affairs as any Bank through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Exhibit 6.01(d)
 
SECTION 6.02. . The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing (including the First
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing
 
Borrowing) or for any Issuing Bank to issue any Letter of Credit shall be subject to the additional conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing or issuance of such Letter of Credit (a) immediately before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of proceeds therefrom, or (as applicable) immediately before and after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing, or (as applicable) the submission of a request for issuance of a Letter of Credit, shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing or such issuance, immediately before and after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds therefrom (in the case of a Borrowing), such statements are true):
 
 
 
 
and (b) the Administrative Agent shall have received (x) additional opinions (which, to the extent such opinions do not pertain to the legality, validity or enforceability of the Borrower's performance under this Agreement, need not be favorable) of counsel to the Borrower and copies of documents and approvals the existence of which would form a necessary basis for any statement made in any certificate or opinion required to be delivered hereunder by the Borrower and (y) such other available information, in all cases concerning the business and financial condition of the Borrower, as any Bank through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
 
SECTION 6.03. . The Borrower hereby terminates the commitments of all of the lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement and represents to the Administrative Agent and the Banks that all outstanding obligations, if any, under the Existing Credit Agreement have been repaid in full. Each of the Banks party to this Agreement which is also a lender or, with respect to Bank One, NA, the administrative agent and a lender, under the Existing Credit Agreement hereby agrees that, for purposes of the Existing Credit Agreement, the termination set forth in the preceding sentence is sufficient to terminate the obligations of the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement and hereby waives receipt of any additional written notice of termination of the Existing Credit Agreement. Each of the Banks party to this Agreement which is also a lender or, with respect to Bank One, NA, the administrative agent and a lender, under the Existing Credit Agreement further waives any notice period set forth in the Existing Credit Agreement with respect to the termination of all commitments described in the preceding sentences.
Condition Precedent to Effectiveness of this Agreement
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a) . The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which the failure so to qualify would have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, assets, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower.
Corporate Existence and Standing
 
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) any law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
Authorization; No Violation
 
(c) . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or any Notes.
Governmental Consents
 
(d) . This Agreement is, and any Notes when delivered will be, the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Validity
 
(e) . There is no pending or, to the best of the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened action or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator, which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note.
Litigation
 
(f) . The Consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2001 and the related Consolidated statements of income and stockholder's equity for the period then ended of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, copies of which have been furnished to each Bank, present fairly the financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at December 31, 2001 and the results of the operations and changes in financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year. The Consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2002 and the related Consolidated statements of income and stockholder's equity for the two quarters then ended of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, copies of which have been furnished to each Bank, present fairly the financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at June 30, 2002 and the results of the operations and changes in financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Change
 
Subsidiaries for the two quarters then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since December 31, 2001, there has been no material adverse change in such financial position or operations.
 
(g) . The Borrower is not (i) an "investment company," (ii) a company "controlled" by an "investment company" which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (iii) to the best knowledge of the Borrower, a company "controlled" by any other "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
 
(h) . Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged in the business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock. The value of the Margin Stock owned directly or indirectly by the Borrower or any Subsidiary which is subject to any arrangement (as such term is used in Section 221.2(g) of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) hereunder is less than an amount equal to 25% of the value of all assets of the Borrower and/or such Subsidiary subject to such arrangement.
Regulation U
 
(i) . The operations of the Borrower and each Material Subsidiary comply in all material respects with all Environmental Laws, the noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the business of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms.
Environmental Matters
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any L/C Obligations shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment, the Borrower will, unless the Majority Banks shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants of the Borrower
 
(a) . Pay and discharge, and cause each Material Subsidiary to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income, profit or property, and (ii) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any Material Subsidiary shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and with respect to which the Borrower shall have established appropriate reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
(b) . Maintain, and cause each Material Subsidiary to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by (or, as applicable, self-insure in a manner and to an extent not inconsistent with conventions observed by) companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary operates.
Maintenance of Insurance
 
(c) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each Material Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory), and franchises, except as otherwise permitted by .
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
Section 8.02(c)
 
(d) . Comply, and cause each Material Subsidiary to comply, with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, all Environmental Laws), noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the business of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
 
(e) . Keep, and cause each Material Subsidiary to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each Material Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
Keeping of Books
 
(f) . Permit, and cause each Material Subsidiary to permit, the Administrative Agent, and its representatives and agents, to inspect any of the properties, corporate books and financial records of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries, to examine and make copies of the books of account and other financial records of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries with, and to be advised as to the same by, their respective officers or directors, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and intervals as the Administrative Agent may reasonably designate.
Inspection
 
(g) . Furnish to the Administrative Agent in sufficient copies for distribution to each Bank:
Reporting Requirements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(h) . Use the proceeds of Borrowings made under or Letters of Credit issued in accordance with this Agreement for general corporate purposes not in violation of any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "")). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower may use the credit facilities provided by this Agreement in support of its commercial paper program. With respect to any Borrowing the proceeds of which shall be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock, the Borrower shall include in the Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing such information as shall enable the Banks and the Borrower to comply with the Margin Regulations.
Use of Proceeds
Margin Regulations
 
(i) . Maintain a ratio of (i) the sum of Consolidated income before income tax expense (excluding extraordinary gains and losses) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries plus Interest Expense of the Borrower and its
Interest Expense Coverage Ratio
 
Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower with respect to the four-quarter period then ended, to (ii) Interest Expense for such four-quarter period then ended of not less than 2.0 to 1.0.
 
SECTION 8.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any L/C Obligations shall remain outstanding or any Bank shall have any Commitment, the Borrower will not, without the written consent of the Majority Banks:
Negative Covenants of the Borrower
 
(a) . Suffer to exist, create, assume or incur, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to suffer to exist, create, assume or incur, any Security Interest, or assign, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, in each case to secure Debt or any other obligation or liability, other than:
Liens, Etc
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been made as part of a sale of the business out of which the applicable Receivables arose, (ii) such sale, assignment or other transfer is made in the ordinary course of business and is for the purpose of collection only, (iii) such sale, assignment or other transfer is made in connection with an agreement on the part of the assignee thereof to render performance under the contract that has given rise to such Receivable, or (iv) in all other cases, the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held at any time by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) such Receivables (as determined by the Borrower using any reasonable methods) shall not exceed an amount equal to 10% of the Consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time.
 
 
 
 
 
case that neither the assets subject to such Security Interest nor the Debt incurred in connection therewith are reflected on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower.
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries may, at any time, suffer to exist, issue, incur, assume and guarantee Secured Debt (in addition to Secured Debt permitted to be secured under the foregoing through ), that the aggregate amount of such Secured Debt, together with the aggregate amount of all other Secured Debt (not including Secured Debt permitted to be secured under the foregoing through ) of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries which is suffered to exist, issued, incurred, assumed or guaranteed after the date hereof, does not at such time exceed 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 8.02(a)
paragraphs (i)
(xvii)
provided
paragraphs (i)
(xvii)
 
(b) . Permit Consolidated Adjusted Debt of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at any time to exceed an amount equal to 55% of Consolidated Capitalization at such time.
Limitation on Debt
 
(c)
Merger, Etc.
 
 
 
giving effect to such transaction, no event shall have occurred and be continuing which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an Event of Default.
 
For purposes of this : "" means, when referring to the Borrower, the conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole and means, when referring to a Subsidiary, the conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary; and "" means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
Section 8.02(c)
Transfer Assets
U.S. Corporation
 
 
SECTION 9.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a) The Borrower shall fail to (i) pay any installment of interest on any Advance or any facility fee payable under , any utilization fee payable under or any letter of credit fee payable under or , in each case when due and such default continues for five days, or (ii) pay any amount of principal of any Advance when due; or
Section 5.04(a)
Section 5.04(d)
Section 4.07
Section 5.04(c)
 
(b) Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement, any Advance or Letter of Credit shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
 
(c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or of this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed and such failure shall remain unremedied on the earlier to occur of (i) or (ii): (i) the date 30 days after the Borrower shall have become aware of such failure or (ii) the date that financial statements of the Borrower shall be available from which it may be ascertained that such failure to perform or observe such term, covenant or agreement shall have occurred. For purposes of clause (ii) above, the date that any financial statements shall be deemed available shall be the date on which the Borrower shall file (or, if earlier, the date the Borrower shall have been required to file) such financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of any report required to be filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or
Section 8.01(i)
8.02(a)
8.02(b)
 
(d) The Borrower shall (i) fail to perform or observe, or shall breach, any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed (other than those failures or breaches referred to in , , , or of this ) and any such failure or breach shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the
subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)(ii)
(d)(iii)
Section 9.01
 
request of any Bank; (ii) fail to perform or observe ; or (iii) fail to perform or observe and such failure shall remain unremedied for 15 days after the occurrence thereof; or
Section 8.02(c)
Section 8.01(g)(vii)
 
(e) The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to pay any amount of principal of, interest on or premium with respect to, any Debt (other than that evidenced by this Agreement) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary when due (whether at scheduled maturity or by required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise) which Debt is outstanding under one or more instruments or agreements in an aggregate principal amount not less than the Material Default Amount and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist after the applicable grace period specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a scheduled prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(f) The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debt under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property; or the Borrower or any such Material Subsidiary shall take corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this ; that, in the case of any such proceeding filed or commenced against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary, such event shall not constitute an "Event of Default" hereunder unless either (i) the same shall have remained undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, (ii) an order for relief shall have been entered against the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect or (iii) the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary shall have taken corporate action consenting to, approving or acquiescing in the commencement or maintenance of such proceeding; or
subsection (f)
provided
 
(g) Any judgment or order for the payment of money shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary and (i) either (A) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (B) there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days, in the case of a judgment or order rendered or entered by a court located in the United States, its territories and Puerto Rico, or 30 consecutive days, in the case of any other court, during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect, and (ii) the amount of such judgment or order, when aggregated with the amount of all other such judgments and orders described in this , shall exceed the Material Default Amount; or
subsection (g)
 
(h) Either (i) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation shall terminate any single-employer plan (as defined in Section 4001(b)(2) of ERISA) that provides benefits for employees of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary and such plan shall have an Unfunded
 
Liability in an amount in excess of the Material Default Amount at such time or (ii) withdrawal liability shall be assessed against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in connection with any multiemployer plan (whether under Section 4203 or Section 4205 of ERISA) and such withdrawal liability shall be an amount in excess of the Material Default Amount; or
 
(i) A Change of Control shall occur;
 
then, in any such event but subject to the next sentence, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Banks, by notice to the Borrower, (i) declare the obligation of each Bank to make Advances and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, (ii) declare the entire unpaid principal amount of the Advances, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement (including Reimbursement Obligations) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such accrued interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , that in the case of any Competitive Bid Advance, the unpaid principal amount thereof, and all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, shall not be declared to be due and payable pursuant to the foregoing without the consent of the Bank to which such Competitive Bid Advance is owing and (iii) demand delivery of, and promptly following such demand the Borrower shall deliver and pledge to the Administrative Agent (or another Bank selected by the Borrower) for the benefit of the Banks, cash or other collateral of a type satisfactory to the Majority Banks and having a value, as determined by the Administrative Agent, equal to the aggregate undrawn face amount of the Letters of Credit then outstanding and all fees and other amounts then due. In the event of the occurrence of an Event of Default under , (A) the obligation of each Bank to make Advances and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts (including Reimbursement Obligations) shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
clause (ii)
Section 9.01(f)
 
SECTION 9.02. . Any cash collateral delivered pursuant to in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit shall be held by the Administrative Agent or the applicable Bank in a separate interest-bearing account appropriately designated as a cash collateral account in relation to this Agreement and the Letters of Credit and retained by and under the control of the Administrative Agent or the applicable Bank for the benefit of all of the Banks and the Issuing Banks as collateral security for the Borrower's obligations in respect of this Agreement and each of the Letters of Credit. Amounts held in such account shall be applied on the direction of the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Banks for drawings or payments under or pursuant to Letters of Credit, or if no such reimbursement is required, to payment of such of the other obligations due and owing hereunder as the Administrative Agent shall determine. If no Event of Default shall be continuing, amounts remaining in any cash collateral account established pursuant to this which are not to be applied to reimburse an Issuing Bank for amounts actually paid or to be paid by such Issuing Bank in respect of a Letter of Credit or to payment of such of the other obligations due and owing hereunder, shall be promptly returned to the Borrower upon the Borrower's request therefor.
Cash Collateral
Section 9.01
Section 9.02
 
 
SECTION 10.01. . Each Bank hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Banks and such instructions shall be binding upon all Banks and all holders of Notes. The Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes it to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law.
Authorization and Action
 
SECTION 10.02. . Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) the Administrative Agent may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof unless and until the Administrative Agent receives written notice of the assignment thereof signed by such payee and the Administrative Agent receives the written agreement of the assignee that such assignee is bound hereby as it would have been if it had been an original Bank party hereto, in each case in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (ii) the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts, and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telegram, cable or telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties or by acting upon any representation or warranty of the Borrower made or deemed to be made hereunder. Further, the Administrative Agent (A) makes no warranty or representation to any Bank and shall not be responsible to any Bank for the accuracy or completeness of any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement, (B) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower, and (C) shall not be responsible to any Bank for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto.
Duties and Obligations
 
SECTION 10.03. . With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it and the Notes issued to it, the Administrative Agent, in its separate capacity as a Bank, shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent; and the term "Bank" or "Banks" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include the Administrative Agent in its separate capacity as a Bank. The Administrative Agent, in its separate capacity as a Bank, and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as
Administrative Agent and Affiliates
 
trustee under indentures of, participate in Letters of Credit issued to and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Subsidiary and any Person which may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, all as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Banks.
 
SECTION 10.04. . Each Bank agrees that it has itself been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal of and investigations into the financial condition, creditworthiness, condition, affairs, status and nature of the Borrower. Accordingly, each Bank confirms to the Administrative Agent that such Bank has not relied, and will not hereafter rely, on the Administrative Agent, or any other Bank, (i) to check or inquire on its behalf into the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information provided by the Borrower under or in connection with this Agreement or the transactions herein contemplated (whether or not such information has been or is hereafter distributed to such Bank by the Administrative Agent), (ii) to assess or keep under review on its behalf the financial condition, creditworthiness, condition, affairs, status or nature of the Borrower or (iii) in entering into this Agreement or in making its own credit decisions with respect to the taking or not taking of any action under this Agreement.
Bank Credit Decision
 
SECTION 10.05. . The Banks agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Commitments then held by each of them (or if the Commitments have at the time been terminated, ratably according to the respective Dollar Amounts of their Advances then outstanding), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, provided that no Bank shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Bank agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, the administration, modification or amendment of this Agreement or preservation of any rights of the Administrative Agent or the Banks under, or the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.
Indemnification
 
SECTION 10.06. . The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Banks and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Banks. Upon any such resignation or removal of the Administrative Agent, the Majority Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent to assume the position as Administrative Agent of the retiring Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Banks, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Majority Banks' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on
Successor Administrative Agent
 
behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be either a Bank hereunder or a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. The Borrower shall have the right to approve any successor Administrative Agent, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld (in all such cases the Borrower shall be entitled to take into account its past and then existing commercial banking relationships, among other things); that, if an Event of Default shall have occurred, such right of the Borrower to approve the successor Administrative Agent shall be suspended during the continuance of such Event of Default. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement.
provided
Article X
 
SECTION 10.07. . None of the Banks identified on the cover page or signature pages of this Agreement as the "Syndication Agent" or "Co-Lead Arrangers" or "Co-Documentation Agents" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Banks as such. Each Bank acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any of the Banks identified as Syndication Agent, Co-Lead Arrangers or Co-Documentation Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or refraining from taking any action hereunder or pursuant hereto.
Syndication Agent, Co-Lead Arrangers and Co-Documentation Agents
 
 
SECTION 11.01. . Subject to the next four sentences, no amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Banks, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. No amendment or waiver of of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by Banks having at least 66
Amendments, Etc
Section 8.02(a)
 2
/
3
% of the then aggregate amount of the Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, holding at least 66
 2
/
3
% of the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. No amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Banks, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in , (b) change the Commitments of the Banks or subject the Banks to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any facility fees or other amount payable hereunder, (d) change any date fixed for any payment in respect of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any facility fees or other amount payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Banks, which shall be required for the Banks or any of them to
Article VI
 
take any action hereunder, or amend the definition herein of "Majority Banks," or (f) amend this ; , no such amendment, waiver or consent shall, without the consent of each Issuing Bank, amend, modify or waive any provision of or alter any rights or obligations with respect to any Letter of Credit. No amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Banks required hereinabove to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the actions contemplated by shall not be subject to the consent of the Banks, except as otherwise expressly provided in such Section.
Section 11.01
provided
Article IV
Section 2.05
 
SECTION 11.02. . All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including by telex, telegram or telecopier) and mailed or sent or delivered, if to the Borrower, at the address set forth for the Borrower on the signature pages hereof; if from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Bank, to the Administrative Agent at the address set forth for the Administrative Agent on the signature pages hereof; if from the Administrative Agent to any Bank, at the address of such Bank's Domestic Lending Office; or, in any case, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto (except in the case of the Borrower, as to which a change of address may be made by notice to the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Banks and except in the case of any Bank, as to which a change of address may be made by notice to the Administrative Agent). Subject to the next sentence, all such notices and communications shall be effective, in the case of written notice, when deposited in the mails, air mail, postage prepaid, and, in the case of notice by telex, telecopy, telegram or cable, when sent addressed as set forth above. All notices and communications pursuant to , , and shall not be effective until they are received by the addressee. The Administrative Agent agrees to deliver promptly to each Bank copies of each report, document, certificate, notice and request, or summaries thereof, which the Borrower is required to, and does in fact, deliver to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including, without limitation, copies of the reports to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to . The Administrative Agent shall notify each of the Banks when all of the documents required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to shall have been received by the Administrative Agent.
Notices, Etc
Articles II
III
IX
X
Section 8.01(g)
Section 6.01
 
SECTION 11.03. . No failure on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Bank to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver hereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
SECTION 11.04. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes, if any, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of one firm of attorneys retained as counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Arranger as to their rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
 
all direct out-of-pocket losses, and reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses, if any (including reasonable fees and expenses of outside counsel and reasonable allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel), of any Bank in connection with the enforcement (whether by legal proceedings, negotiation or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes, if any, and the other documents delivered hereunder.
 
(b) If, due to payments made by the Borrower due to acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to or due to any other reason, any Bank receives payments of principal of any Fixed Rate Advance other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Bank any amounts required to compensate such Bank for any additional direct out-of-pocket losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, including, without limitation, any such loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Bank to fund or maintain such Advance.
Section 9.01
 
(c) Subject to the next sentence, the Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Bank and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against any and all claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of outside counsel and reasonable allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel) which may be incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent or such Bank or any such director, officer or employee in connection with or arising out of any investigation, litigation, or proceeding (i) related to any transaction or proposed transaction (whether or not consummated) in which any proceeds of any Borrowing are applied or proposed to be applied, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower, whether or not the Administrative Agent or such Bank or any such director, officer or employee is a party to such transactions or (ii) related to the Borrower's entering into this Agreement, or to any actions or omissions of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates or any of its or their respective officers, directors or employees in connection therewith. The Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any such indemnified Person from or against any portion of such claims, damages, liabilities or expenses (a) arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified Person or (b) that result from the violation by the Administrative Agent or Bank of any law or judicial order.
 
SECTION 11.05. . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of , each Bank (and each of its Affiliates) is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Bank (or any of its Affiliates) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Notes held by such Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement and any Notes and of whether or not such obligations may be matured. Each Bank agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Bank, but the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Bank under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which such Bank may have.
Right of Set-Off
Section 9.01
Section 9.01
 
SECTION 11.06. . (a) This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all of the Banks.
Binding Effect; Assignment
 
(b) Any Bank may assign, participate or otherwise transfer all or any part of, or interest in, such Bank's rights and obligations hereunder and under the Notes issued to it hereunder to one or more banks or other entities; that (i) in the case of any transfer to a Person that is not a Bank, an Affiliate of a Bank or an Approved Fund, unless (except during the continuance of an Event of Default) the Borrower (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and the Administrative Agent (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall have expressly agreed in writing, no Bank shall, by reason of any such transfer, be relieved of any of its obligations or responsibilities to the Borrower hereunder, including without limitation the obligation to make Advances in accordance with the provisions of and , if any, or under any Note issued to it hereunder or the obligation to the Issuing Banks hereunder to participate in Letters of Credit in accordance with the terms of , and (ii) in the case of any assignment, the amount of the Commitment being assigned pursuant to such assignment shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 (or a lesser amount approved by the Administrative Agent); , , that during the continuance of any Event of Default hereunder, the consent of the Borrower to any such assignment shall not be required. To the extent of any such assignment (but not in the event of any such participation or other transfer) such assignee shall have the same rights and benefits against the Borrower as it would have had if it were a Bank hereunder. However, (i) unless and until the conditions for the Administrative Agent's treating such assignee as holder pursuant to clause (c) below shall have been satisfied, such assignee shall not be entitled to exercise the rights of a Bank under this Agreement and the Administrative Agent shall not be obligated to make payment of any amount to which such assignee may become entitled hereunder other than to the Bank which assigned its rights to such assignee and (ii) such assignee shall not be included for purposes of determining the number of Banks whose consent shall be required to take any action or refrain from taking any action hereunder or be entitled to exercise any voting rights hereunder unless (A) such assignee shall have acquired the respective assignor's entire interest under this Agreement and in the Notes made to such assignor or (B) if such assignee shall have acquired less than the respective assignor's entire interest herein and under such Notes, the Borrower shall have expressly agreed to such inclusion of such assignee and such exercise by such assignee. Nothing contained herein shall impair the ability of any Bank, in its discretion, to agree, solely as between itself and its assignees, participants and other transferees, upon the manner in which such Bank shall exercise its rights under this Agreement and the Notes made to such Bank.
provided
Article II
III
Article IV
provided
further
 
(c) In order to effect any assignment permitted hereunder by a Bank of all or any portion of its Commitment hereunder, the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register (as defined
 
below), an agreement substantially in the form of hereto (an ""), together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank hereunder and (y) the Bank assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Bank shall cease to be a party hereto).
Exhibit 11.06
Assignment and Acceptance
 
(d) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Bank assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in (and any later statements delivered pursuant to ) and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Bank or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vi) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank.
Section 7.01(f)
Section 8.01(g)(ii)
 
(e) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Banks and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Bank from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Banks may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Bank hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Bank at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 11.02
Register
 
(f) Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, each Bank may pledge its right, title and interest under this Agreement and any Note made to it to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other Governmental Authority, as security for financial accommodations or privileges being provided or extended to such Bank by such Governmental Authority.
 
SECTION 11.07. . The Administrative Agent, each Bank and each Issuing Bank agree to hold any confidential information which it may receive from the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, any such information obtained or gathered in connection with any inspection of the type contemplated in ) in confidence, except for disclosure (i) to its Affiliates, legal counsel, accountants, and other professional advisors, and then solely on a need-to-know basis, (ii) in response to any request or order therefor issued by any Governmental Authority, (iii) as required by law, regulation, or legal process, (iv) within any legal proceeding to enforce any of its rights or remedies hereunder; that an Event of Default shall have occurred hereunder and the requisite Banks shall have elected under to enforce such rights or remedies against the Borrower, (v) to any permitted assignee under , and (vi) of information which is already publicly available at the time of such disclosure.
Confidentiality
Section 8.01(f)
provided
Section 9.01
Section 11.06
 
SECTION 11.08. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws (as distinguished from the conflicts of laws rules) of the State of Illinois.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 11.09. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 11.10. . Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provisions or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
 
SECTION 11.11. . This Agreement, taken together with all of the other documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein to be delivered by the Borrower, embodies the entire agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, written and oral, relating to the subject matter hereof as among the Borrower, the Banks parties hereto and the Administrative Agent.
Entire Agreement
 
SECTION 11.12. . Notwithstanding the satisfaction of all conditions referred to in and with respect to any Advance denominated in an Agreed Currency other than in Dollars, if there shall occur on or prior to the date of such Advance any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which would in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent or the Majority Banks make it impracticable for such Advance to be denominated in the Agreed Currency specified by the Borrower, then the Administrative Agent
Market Disruption
Article II
Article VI
 
shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Banks, and such Advance shall not be denominated in such Agreed Currency but shall be made on such Borrowing Date in Dollars, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Dollar Amount of the aggregate principal amount specified in the related Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election, as the case may be, as Base Rate Advances, unless the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent at least one Domestic Business Day before such date that it elects not to borrow on such date.
 
SECTION 11.13. . If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due from the Borrower hereunder in the currency expressed to be payable herein (the "") into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the specified currency with such other currency at the Administrative Agent's main Chicago office on the Domestic Business Day preceding that on which final, non-appealable judgment is given. The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any Bank or the Administrative Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency other than the specified currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Domestic Business Day following receipt by such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal, reasonable banking procedures purchase the specified currency with such other currency. If the amount of the specified currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency, the Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, against such loss, and if the amount of the specified currency so purchased exceeds (a) the sum originally due to any Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency and (b) any amounts shared with other Banks as a result of allocations of such excess as a disproportionate payment to such Bank under , such Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, agrees to remit such excess to the Borrower.
Judgment Currency
specified currency
Section 5.17
 
 
The duly authorized parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers or agents, as of the date of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 2.02 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent for the
    Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement referred to below
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
 
Attention: Kathleen Blomquist
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Syndicated Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Syndicated Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 2.02
Proposed Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.02
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is , 20.
            
    
 
(ii) The Type of Syndicated Advances comprising the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances] [EURIBOR Rate Advances].
 
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [$] [Approximate Equivalent Amount of] .
            
 
(iv) The Interest Period for each Syndicated Advance made as part of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [ months] [ days].
    
    
 
(v) The Agreed Currency for each Syndicated Advance made as part of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing is [].
                    
 
(vi) The proceeds of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A duly completed Form FR U-l (OMB No. 7100-0115), executed by a duly
 
authorized officer of the undersigned, accompanies this Notice of Syndicated Borrowing and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Syndicated Borrowing].
 
 
Exhibit 2.03 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent for the
    Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement referred to below
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
 
Attention: Kathleen Blomquist
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement of an interest rate election, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to the affected Syndicated Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 2.03
Affected Syndicated Borrowing
Section 2.03
 
(i) The Affected Syndicated Borrowing is the following:
 
(a) Type: 
                    
 
(b) Last Day of Present Interest Period: 
                    
 
(c) Agreed Currency: 
                    
 
(d) Aggregate Amount: [$] [Approximate Equivalent Amount of] 
                    
 
(ii) The portion of such Affected Syndicated Borrowing to be Converted is: [$] [[Approximate Equivalent Amount of] 
                    
 
(iii) Business Day of the Conversion in respect of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing is , 20.
            
    
 
(iv) Upon giving effect to the Conversion,
 
(a) the portion of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing that is Converted shall be comprised of [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances] [EURIBOR Rate Advances], each having an Interest Period of [and being in the Agreed Currency of ]; and
                    
                    
 
(b) the portion of the balance of the Affected Syndicated Borrowing shall continue to have the Type, the Agreed Currency and Interest Period specified in clause (i) above.
 
 
Exhibit 3.02 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent for
    the Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement referred to below
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests Competitive Bid Quotes for the following proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing(s) (the ""):
Credit Agreement
Section 3.02
Proposed Borrowings
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowings is , 20.
            
    
 
(ii) The Type of Advances with respect to which Competitive Bid Quotes are hereby requested are:
 
 
(iii) Where the Type of Advance is specified to be a Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote a Competitive Bid Margin in relation to the Eurocurrency Rate to be determined for the applicable Interest Period. Where the Type of Advance is specified to be a EURIBOR Bid Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote a Competitive Bid Margin in relation to the EURIBOR to be determined for the applicable Interest Period. Where the Type of Advance is specified to be an Absolute Rate Advance, each quoting Bank is requested to quote an Absolute Rate.
 
(iv) The Administrative Agent is hereby requested to advise [all of the Banks] [the Banks specified below] of the request for Competitive Bid Quotes set forth herein.
 
(v) The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A pro forma draft of the Form FR U-1 (OMB No. 7100-0015) which will be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the undersigned in the event that the undersigned issues a Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing in connection with this Competitive Bid Quote Request accompanies this Competitive Bid Quote Request and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing].
 
 
Exhibit 3.04 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent for
    the Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement referred to below
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent and hereby notifies you of, and requests that you forward to Baxter International Inc, on our behalf, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the following Competitive Bid Quotes on the following terms:
Credit Agreement
Section 3.04
 
(i) Quoting Bank: .
                    
 
(ii) Person to contact at the Quoting Bank:
 
     Name:
                             
 
     Telephone:
                    
 
     Telecopy:
                      
 
     Telex:
                             
 
(iii) Proposed Borrowing Date: .
                    
 
(iv) We hereby offer to make Competitive Bid Advances in the following principal amounts, for the following Interest Periods and at the following rates:
 
 
provided that the aggregate principal amount with respect to which the Borrower may accept offers in connection with this Competitive Bid Quote shall not exceed $.
            
 
We understand and agree that the offer(s) set forth above, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, irrevocably obligate(s) us to make the Competitive Bid Advance(s) for which any such offer is accepted, in whole or in part.
 
 
Exhibit 3.06 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent for
    the Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement referred to below
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
 
Attention: Specialized Products Support Unit
 
Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Baxter International Inc., refers to the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "," the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "") as required by of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Section 3.06
Proposed Borrowing
Section 3.06
 
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is , 20.
            
    
 
(ii) The aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bid Advances, the Types thereof and the Interest Periods therefor that have been offered to the undersigned by Banks submitting Competitive Bid Quotes and that by this notice are hereby accepted, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, are set forth below:
 
 
(iii) The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that, by this notice, it irrevocably accepts the offers made by the Banks which shall have submitted Competitive Bid Quotes to the extent that the principal amount offered by each such Bank, together with the principal amount offered by all other such Banks in connection therewith, does not exceed the respective amounts set forth above. As among such Banks, the offers made are accepted in the ascending order of Competitive Bid Margin or Absolute Rate, as the case may be.
 
(iv) The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing [will not be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry Margin Stock] [will be used to purchase or carry Margin Stock. A duly completed Form FR U-1 (OMB No. 7100-0115), executed by a duly authorized officer of the undersigned, accompanies this Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and sets forth thereon the relevant information with respect to the use of the proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing].
 
 
Exhibit 6.01(d)(i) to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
 
To each of the Banks parties
    to the Credit Agreement
    described below, and to
    Bank One, NA,
    as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "") among Baxter International Inc. (the ""), the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Section 6.01(d)
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
I am General Counsel of the Borrower. I have acted as counsel for the Borrower in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement.
 
In that connection I have examined:
 
(1) The Credit Agreement.
 
(2) The Certificate of Incorporation of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "").
Charter
 
(3) The by-laws of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "").
By-laws
 
(4) Certificates of the Secretaries of State of Delaware, dated , , and Illinois, dated , , each attesting to the continued corporate existence and good standing of the Borrower in such State.
            
    
            
    
 
(5) All of the other documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 6.01
 
I have also examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of the documents listed in a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Borrower, dated the date hereof (the "") and attached hereto as , certifying that the documents listed in such certificate are all of the indentures, loan or credit agreements, leases, mortgages, security agreements, bonds, notes and other agreements or instruments, and all of the orders, writs,
Certificate
Exhibit A
 
judgments, awards, injunctions and decrees, which affect or purport to affect the Borrower's right to borrow money or the Borrower's obligations under the Credit Agreement or the Notes. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Borrower, certificates of public officials and of other officers of the Borrower, and agreements, instruments and documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of other officers of the Borrower or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Banks and the Administrative Agent. Based upon the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:
 
1. The Borrower is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which the failure so to qualify would have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, assets, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower.
 
2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower contained in any document, order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree listed in the Certificate or, to the best of my knowledge, contained in any other similar document or any other order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree. The Credit Agreement and the Notes have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower. If a Borrowing were to occur on this date in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, and assuming the statements made in of the Credit Agreement remained true and correct after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of such Borrowing, such Borrowing would not violate Regulation U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Section 7.01(h)
 
3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes.
 
4. The Credit Agreement and the Notes are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
5. There is no pending or, to the best of my knowledge, threatened action or proceeding against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator which is likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or the Notes.
 
6. The Borrower is not (i) an "investment company," (ii) a company "controlled" by an "investment company" which is registered under the Investment Company
 
Act of 1940, as amended, or (iii) to the best of my knowledge, a company "controlled" by any other "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
(b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above is subject to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
(c) I express no opinion as to (i) and of the Credit Agreement insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Bank's claims under the Credit Agreement or the Notes, (ii) or insofar as those Sections may be construed as requiring that the Borrower indemnify any Bank or the Administrative Agent with respect to any claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by such Bank or the Administrative Agent, and (iii) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois wherein any Bank may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought which limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible.
Sections 5.17
11.05
Section 5.15(c)
11.04(c)
 
I am aware that Sidley Austin Brown & Wood will rely upon the statements in this opinion (other than paragraph 4) in rendering their opinion furnished pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 6.01
 
The opinions expressed above are based solely on factual matters in existence as of the date hereof and laws and regulations in effect on the date hereof. I assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion letter should such factual matters change or should such laws or regulations be changed by legislative or regulatory action, judicial decision or otherwise.
 
 
Exhibit 6.01(d)(ii)
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
 
To the Banks parties to the Credit
    Agreement and Listed on Schedule I hereto:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Baxter International Inc. (the "") in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "") among the Borrower, the banks parties thereto (the "") and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent (the ""). All capitalized terms used in this opinion shall have the meanings attributed to them in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
Banks
Administrative Agent
 
In that connection we have reviewed the following documents:
 
(1) Counterparts of the Credit Agreement, purportedly executed by each of the parties thereto; and
 
(2) The opinion of Thomas J. Sabatino, Jr., General Counsel of the Borrower, and the other documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 6.01
 
In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the authenticity of all such documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures, the due authority of the parties executing such documents, and the conformity to the originals of such documents submitted to us as copies. We have assumed that each of the Banks, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower have duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement, in each case with all necessary power and authority (corporate and otherwise). To the extent that our opinions expressed below involve conclusions as to the matters set forth in the opinion of counsel referred to in item (2) above, we have assumed without independent investigation the correctness of the opinions set forth therein (other than the opinion set forth in paragraph 4 thereof). In addition, we have assumed that there are no written or oral terms or conditions agreed to by the Borrower, and any or all of the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Banks which could vary the truth, completeness, correctness, validity or effect of the Credit Agreement or the Notes.
 
Based upon the foregoing examination of documents and the assumptions set forth herein and upon such investigation as we have deemed necessary, we are of the opinion
 
that, under the law of the State of Illinois, the Credit Agreement and the Notes are the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
Our opinion is subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a) Our opinion is subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, receivership, reorganization or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). In applying such principles, a court, among other things, might not allow a creditor to accelerate the maturity of a debt upon the occurrence of a default deemed immaterial or might decline to order a debtor to perform covenants. Such principles applied by a court might include a requirement that a creditor act with reasonableness and in good faith.
 
(b) Our opinion is limited to the internal (as opposed to conflicts of laws) laws of the State of Illinois, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we express no opinion as to the effect upon the obligations of the Borrower of (i) any law of any jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois wherein any Bank may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought or (ii) the legal status of any of the Banks.
 
(c) We express no opinion as to (i) and of the Credit Agreement, insofar as they provide that any Bank purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Affiliate of a Bank may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such Bank's claims under the Credit Agreement or the Notes or (ii) or , insofar as those Sections may be construed as requiring that the Borrower indemnify any Bank or the Administrative Agent with respect to any claim, damage, liability or expense incurred as a result of any violation of law by such Bank or the Administrative Agent.
Sections 5.17
11.05
Section 5.15(c)
11.04(c)
 
This opinion is limited to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly set forth herein. The opinions expressed herein are being delivered to you as of the date hereof in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and are solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described hereinabove and may not be relied on in any manner or for any purpose by any other person, nor any copies published, communicated or otherwise made available in whole or in part to any other person or entity without our specific prior written consent, except that you may furnish copies thereof (i) to any of your permitted successors and assigns in respect of the Credit Agreement, (ii) to your independent auditors and attorneys, (iii) upon the request of any state or federal authority or official having regulatory jurisdiction over you, and (iv) pursuant to order or legal process of any court or governmental agency.
 
The opinions expressed above are based solely on factual matters in existence as of the date hereof and laws and regulations in effect on the date hereof. We assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion letter should such factual matters change or should such laws or regulations be changed by legislative or regulatory action, judicial decision or otherwise.
 
Very truly yours,
 
[Sidley Austin Brown & Wood]
 
Exhibit 8.01(g)(ii) to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
 
Baxter International Inc.
One Baxter Parkway
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
 
Gentlemen:
 
We have examined the consolidated balance sheet of Baxter International Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 20, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and changes in financial position for the year then ended, and have issued our report thereon dated , 20. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
    
            
    
 
In connection with our examination, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Baxter International Inc. is not in compliance with the covenants of or of the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2002 among Baxter International Inc., the Banks parties thereto and Bank One, NA, as Administrative Agent. However, it should be noted that our examination was not directed primarily toward obtaining knowledge of such noncompliance.
Section 8.01(i)
8.02(b)
 
Very truly yours,
 
[PriceWaterhouse Coopers LLP]
 
Exhibit 11.06 to
Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of October 3, 2002
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2002 (the "") among Baxter International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain "Banks" parties thereto, and Bank One, NA, as administrative agent for the Banks (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
(the "") and (the "") agree as follows:
                    
Assignor
                    
Assignee
 
1. The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, that interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof which represents the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, including without limitation, such interest in the Assignor's Commitment [,] [and] the [Syndicated] Advances owing to the Assignor [, and the Note[s]] held by the Assignor]. After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignee's Commitment and the amount of the Advance owing to the Assignee will be as set forth in of Schedule 1.
Section 2
 
2. The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; [and] (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto [; and (iv) attaches the Note[s]] referred to in paragraph 1 above and requests that the Administrative Agent exchange such Note[s]] for [a] new Note[s] payable to the order of the Assignee [which, in the case of the Note, shall be in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, respectively, as specified on Schedule 1 hereto].
 
3. The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in and
Section 7.01(f)
 
thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank' [and] (v) specifies as its Applicable Lending Offices and address for notices the offices set forth beneath its name on the signature pages hereof [and (vi) attaches the forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States certifying as to the Assignee's status for purposes of establishing complete exemption from United States withholding taxes with respect to all payments to be made to the Assignee under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] or such other documents as are necessary to indicate that none of such payments shall be subject to United States withholding taxes by reason of the applicable tax treaty].
8.01(g)(ii)
1
 
4. Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance by the Assignor and the Assignee, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent. The effective date (the "") of this Assignment and Acceptance shall be the later to occur of the date of acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent and the date that is specified in of Schedule 1.
Effective Date
Section 3
 
5. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
6. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and facility and utilization fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee. The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement [and the Notes] for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
 
7. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written, such execution being made on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Section 1
 
Percentage Interest: %
                
 
.
Section 2
 
Assignee's Commitment:                    $
                     
 
Aggregate Outstanding Principal Amount of Syndicated Advances
 
Aggregate Outstanding Principal
Amount of Eurocurrency Bid Rate Advances
Aggregate Outstanding Principal
Amount of EURIBOR Bid Rate
 
[A Syndicated Note payable to the order of the Assignee Dated: , 20
            
    
 
Principal amount: ]
                
 
[A Syndicated Note payable to the order of the Assignor Dated: , 20
            
    
 
Principal amount: ]
                
 
[A Competitive Bid Note payable to the order of the Assignee Dated: , 20]
            
    
 
.
Section 3
 
Requested Effective Date:
2
, 20
            
    
 
 
[Accepted
3
this day of , 20]
            
            
    
 
BANK ONE, NA, as Administrative Agent
 
 
[Acknowledged and Agreed this
4
day of , 20]
            
            
    
 
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise specified, the office set forth below opposite the name of any Bank is such Bank's "Domestic Lending Office", "Eurocurrency Lending Office," "EURIBOR Lending Office" and "Competitive Bid Lending Office":
 
 
 
Execution Copy
 
 
This Amendment (this "") is entered into as of December 31, 2002 by and among Baxter International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank One, NA, individually and as administrative agent (""), and the other financial institutions signatory hereto.
Amendment
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
 
A. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as co-lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as co-documentation agents and the Banks are party to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2002 (the ""). Unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to them by the Credit Agreement; and
Credit Agreement
 
B. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower has requested that the Banks modify the Credit Agreement, and the Banks have consented to such modification, as set forth below.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual execution hereof and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1. . Upon the "Effective Date" (as defined below), Section 8.02(b) of the Credit Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:
Amendment to Credit Agreement
 
(b) . Permit (i) Consolidated Adjusted Debt (which for purposes of this clause (i) only shall exclude an amount equal to seventy percent (70%) of the aggregate amount of senior notes due February 16, 2008 issued by the Borrower on December 17, 2002, but only to the extent such amount shall be treated as "debt" for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at any time (ii) an amount equal to 55% of Consolidated Capitalization at such time.
Limitation on Debt
to exceed
 
2. . The Borrower represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and that this Amendment is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally;
(b) Each of the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement is true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof as if made on the date hereof except to the extent any such representation or warranty is stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty was true and correct on and as of such earlier date;
 
(c) After giving effect to this Amendment, no Event of Default or event which would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both has occurred and is continuing.
 
3. . Section 1 of this Amendment shall become effective (the "") upon the execution and delivery hereof by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Majority Banks.
Effective Date
Effective Date
 
4. .
Reference to and Effect Upon the Credit Agreement
 
(a) Except as specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
(b) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under the Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement, except as specifically set forth herein. Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein" or words of similar import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
 
5. . The Borrower hereby affirms its obligation under Section 11.04 of the Credit Agreement to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses paid or incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including but not limited to the reasonable attorneys' fees and out-of-pocket expenses of such attorneys for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto.
Costs and Expenses
 
6. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS (AS DISTINGUISHED FROM THE CONFLICTS OF LAWS RULES) OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
GOVERNING LAW
 
7. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purposes.
Headings
 
8. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original but all such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


