FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20040621144311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On June 21, 2004, Baxter International Inc. issued the attached press release announcing the election of John Greisch as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the company. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 21, 2004
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 21, 2004  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE: BAX) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected John Greisch, 49, senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective immediately. He succeeds Brian Anderson, 53, who will be leaving the company. Greisch was previously corporate vice president and president of Baxter's BioScience business.
 
"John is a seasoned executive with the strong skills Baxter needs to lead its finance function at this time," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr. "With his depth of finance and business experience both within and outside Baxter, including executive roles in two of Baxter's three core businesses, I am confident that we will make significant progress toward improving the financial strength of our company."
 
Greisch joined Baxter in 2002 as the vice president of finance for Baxter's Renal business. He then assumed the role of vice president of finance and strategy for the
 
GREISCH NAMED CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  PAGE 2
 
BioScience business before being named president of that business. Prior to joining Baxter, Greisch was president and CEO of FleetPride Corporation, after completing a distinguished 11-year career at The Interlake Corporation, a diversified global manufacturing company, serving in a variety of roles, including chief financial officer, treasurer, president of Interlake's largest business and president of its European operations based in London. Greisch received a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Miami University at Ohio and a master's degree in Management from Northwestern University's J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management. He is a certified public accountant and began his business career with Price Waterhouse.
 
On an interim basis, Carlyn Solomon, 41, vice president of global operations for BioScience, will assume day-to-day responsibilities for the company's BioScience business. In order to ensure continuity and a smooth transition, he will continue to report to John Greisch, who will retain oversight responsibility for the BioScience business in the short term. The company has initiated efforts to identify a new president of BioScience from outside the company.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists health-care professionals and their patients with treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 


