FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20050721073411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 21, 2005, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
The press release contains several non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures are used in addition to results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the company's operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the company's business. Management strongly encourages investors to review the company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share, each excluding certain items that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that these non-GAAP earnings measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor performance, and in setting performance compensation targets.
 
The release also uses "free cash flow," which is defined as cash flow from continuing operations less capital expenditures and is not a measure defined in accordance with GAAP. This measure is used internally to evaluate the company's cash performance, and management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure to investors in that it provides a representation of the company's cash level available to reduce debt outstanding, pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock or make strategic investments and acquisitions.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
99Press Release dated July 21, 2005
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: July 21, 2005
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS/Page 2
 
The second-quarter results include a $0.03 per diluted share benefit from a year-to-date tax adjustment, as the company adjusted its income tax rate to the anticipated 2005 full-year rate of 22 percent. This rate reflects savings related to a change in estimate of the company's tax rate due to ongoing improvements to the company's geographic product sourcing strategy.
 
Worldwide sales in the second quarter totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of 8 percent over the same period last year (including a 3 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange). Domestic sales increased 6 percent to $1.2 billion, while international sales grew 11 percent (including a 7 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange) to $1.4 billion. In addition to the positive impact of foreign exchange, strong performance from the company's recombinant and drug delivery businesses contributed to sales growth in the quarter. Sales of Baxter's recombinant products grew 24 percent to $397 million, including $148 million in sales of ADVATE, the company's Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin Free Method (rAHF-PFM) product for the treatment of hemophilia A.
 
Cash flow from continuing operations totaled $508 million for the quarter, compared to $305 million in the same period last year. Free cash flow (cash flow from continuing operations, less capital expenditures of $98 million in 2005 and $139 million in 2004) was $410 million for the quarter, an improvement of $244 million from the second quarter last year.
 
"We are pleased with the improvement in our operational and financial performance. We've continued to meet our commitments with solid improvement in operating margin, earnings and cash flow," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS/Page 3
 
and chief executive officer. "We are committed to improve our business processes and product quality, continue to execute upon our long-term business strategies, and leverage the value inherent within our business portfolio."
 
Six-Month Results
 
For the first six months of 2005, Baxter's worldwide sales grew 8 percent to $5.0 billion, up from $4.6 billion in the same period last year. Foreign exchange favorably impacted sales growth by 3 percentage points year-to-date. Domestic sales totaled $2.2 billion, an increase of 4 percent over the same period last year, while international sales increased 12 percent (including a 6 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange), to $2.8 billion.
 
Baxter's income from continuing operations totaled $548 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, in the first six months of the year, including the charge and restructuring benefit recorded in the second quarter. Excluding these items, the company reported year-to-date income from continuing operations of $533 million, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.85.
 
Cash flow from continuing operations totaled $779 million for the first six months of the year, compared to $252 million in the same period in 2004. Free cash flow (cash flow from continuing operations, less capital expenditures of $163 million in 2005 and $229 million in 2004) was $616 million for the first half of 2005, an improvement of $593 million from the same period last year.
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS/Page 4
 
Third Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Outlook
 
For the third quarter of 2005, the company expects organic sales growth of 2 to 4 percent, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.45 to $0.47.
 
For full-year 2005, Baxter expects organic sales growth of 2 to 4 percent and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.86 to $1.90. Baxter also expects cash flow from continuing operations to exceed $1.6 billion, and to generate free cash flow of at least $1.0 billion in 2005 (after approximately $550 million of anticipated capital expenditures).
 
The company's guidance above excludes the $0.02 per diluted share net benefit from the second-quarter charge and restructuring adjustment, future pre-tax charges expected to total $40 to $50 million related to the rationalization of its hemodialysis instrument manufacturing capacity, and the cost to repatriate foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Including the $0.02 per diluted share net benefit of the second-quarter items, Baxter's full-year earnings guidance under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is expected to be $1.88 to $1.92 per diluted share.
 
A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 21, 2005. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS/Page 5
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results for the third quarter and full year, as well as developments with respect to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: timely realization of the benefits of the company's restructuring initiatives; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and foreign counterparts that could delay, limit or suspend product sales and distribution, including with respect to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays or declining sales; product development risks; interest rates; demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; foreign currency exchange rates; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; global regulatory, trade and tax policies; regulatory, legal or other developments relating to the company's A, AF and AX series dialyzers; the ability to enforce patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; results of product testing; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's web site. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules, including additional reconciliations of non-GAAP measures, are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 6
 
GAAP
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
ADJUSTED
 
 
The non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures contained in this press release (including the presentation above of earnings and per-share earnings, excluding certain items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor performance, and in setting performance compensation targets.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
BAXTER  PAGE 8
 
GAAP to ADJUSTED
RECONCILIATION - Quarter
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
GAAP to ADJUSTED
RECONCILIATION - Year-to-Date
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
 
 
As further discussed in the company's SEC filings, during the fourth quarter of 2004 the company executed offsetting or mirror swaps. These mirror swaps fix the net amount the company will ultimately pay to settle the swaps subject to this strategy. After execution of the mirror swaps, as the market value of the fixed portion of the original portfolio decreases, the market value of the mirror swaps increases, and vice versa. At June 30, 2005, approximately 55% of the net swaps liability has been fixed by the mirror swaps.
Note:
 
During the first half of 2005, the company settled certain swap agreements (and related mirror swaps, as applicable), and made net payments totaling $308 million. In accordance with GAAP, $363 million of outflows were classified in the financing section of the statement of cash flows, and $55 million of inflows were classified in the operating section of the statement of cash flows.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
 
 
Includes plasma-derived hemophilia (FVII, FVIII, FIX and FEIBA), albumin, biosurgery (Tisseel) and other plasma-based products.
1
Principally includes vaccines and non-plasma-based biosurgery products (FloSeal & CoSeal).
2
Principally includes intravenous solutions and nutritional products.
3
Principally includes other hospital-distributed products.
4
Sales of oncology products, which were previously included in Other, are now reported in Drug Delivery, Infusion Systems or Anesthesia, depending on the product. All prior year sales data has been reclassified to reflect this change.
5


