FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20050331111446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
The Board of Directors of Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") has appointed Peter S. Hellman to the Company's Board of Directors effective March 30, 2005. Mr. Hellman's initial term will expire at the Company's 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Mr. Hellman will be named. The Company is not aware of any transaction requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
The press release announcing the appointment is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On March 23, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Susan R. Lichtenstein as Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. The Company also announced the appointment of Peter J. Arduini as the new Corporate Vice President and President of its Medication Delivery business, replacing David F. Drohan, who previously announced his plans to retire after 39 years with the Company.
 
The press release announcing these appointments is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 31, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., March 31, 2005  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced that Peter S. Hellman has been appointed to serve as a member of its board of directors. Hellman, age 55, is president, chief financial and administrative officer and a member of the board of Nordson Corporation, a Westlake, Ohio-based producer of systems that apply adhesives, sealants and coatings during the manufacturing process.
 
"Peter brings a diverse knowledge and experience base to our board," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., Baxter's chairman and chief executive officer. "With his blend of strong financial and operating experience, I am confident Peter will make important contributions to guiding our company forward in the years ahead."
 
Before joining Nordson Corporation, Hellman was president and chief operating officer of TRW Inc., a manufacturer of advanced technology products and services for the automotive, aerospace and information systems markets, where he also served on its board of directors and as a member of the management committee.
 
Hellman also serves on the board of directors of QWEST Communications International Inc., and is a trustee of Case Western Reserve University, the Chagrin River Land Conservancy, LifeBanc, Lorain County Community College Foundation and Western Reserve Academy.
 
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC. NAMES PETER HELLMAN TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS  PAGE 2
 
Hellman received a bachelor's degree in economics from Hobart College in Geneva, N.Y., and a master's degree in business administration from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., March 23, 2005  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) announced today that the company has named two senior executives to key leadership roles.
 
Susan R. Lichtenstein has been named corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. Peter J. Arduini has been named corporate vice president and president of its Medication Delivery business, replacing David F. Drohan, who announced his plans to retire in November after 39 years with the corporation. Both executives will assume their new responsibilities with Baxter in mid-April.
 
"Over the last year, we have been working to assemble a world-class management team, both with leaders from within Baxter, as well as those recruited from outside the company who bring important fresh perspectives to our company," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "The appointments of Susan and Peter now complete our new executive team. I believe we now have the right leadership team in place for unleashing the embedded value within this company that will drive growth and success for years to come."
 
BAXTER ANNOUNCES TWO KEY EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS - Page 2
 
Lichtenstein, age 48, comes to Baxter with experience across law firms, government and corporations. Most recently, Lichtenstein was a partner with McDermott Will & Emery. She joined the law firm after having served as general counsel to Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich. She also brings corporate experience to Baxter having worked in the telecommunications industry where she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for both Ameritech Corporation and Tellabs, Inc. Previously, she served as deputy corporation counsel for the City of Chicago after having spent a decade with Schiff Hardin & Waite, where she was a partner working on securities, commercial and regulatory matters.
 
"Susan brings a unique blend of legal and business experience, having served in senior legal positions in corporations, government and prominent law firms," Parkinson said. "In addition to her solid background as a litigator, she is experienced in corporate governance, compliance and corporate transactions. We are fortunate to add to our executive team someone of Susan's stature and proven capabilities."
 
Lichtenstein received her law degree from Northwestern University Law School where she was a member of the editorial board for the Northwestern University Law Review. She graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Minnesota.
 
Arduini, age 41, comes to Baxter from General Electric Healthcare where he spent much of his 15 years there in a variety of leadership and general manager roles for domestic and global businesses. In addition to having served in sales management,
 
BAXTER ANNOUNCES TWO KEY EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS - Page 3
 
Arduini also has overseen marketing, market research, product design and engineering program development for its radiology and cardiology franchise. Most recently, he was global general manager of its cat scan (CT) and functional imaging business, a $2 billion capital equipment and innovation-intensive business. Prior to joining GE, Arduini spent four years with Procter and Gamble.
 
"Peter has a great track record for managing complexity and delivering results, while driving innovation," Parkinson said, adding, "He brings to Baxter a keen understanding of the healthcare environment and the issues facing hospitals, while also having the discipline, rigor and focus required to lead a successful global business like Baxter's Medication Delivery business in today's healthcare market."
 
Arduini received his master's in business administration degree from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management, after graduating from Susquehanna University with a bachelor of science degree in marketing.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 


