FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20050321100546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
The Board of Directors of Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") has appointed Blake E. Devitt to the Company's Board of Directors effective March 21, 2005. Mr. Devitt's initial term will expire on the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders on May 3, 2005. On that date, Mr. Devitt will stand for election by the Company's stockholders to the Board for a two-year term expiring in 2007. The Board of Directors has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Mr. Devitt will be named. The Company is not aware of any transaction requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
The press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Devitt to the Company's Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 21, 2005
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., March 21, 2005  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced that Blake E. Devitt has been appointed to serve as a member of its board of directors. Devitt, age 58, recently retired as senior audit partner and leader of the pharmaceutical and medical device industry practice at Ernst & Young LLP, headquartered in New York City.
 
Over his 33-year career at Ernst & Young, he served as lead partner on several of the firm's largest pharmaceutical and medical device audit clients, including Eli Lilly and Company and Guidant Corporation. Over the past four years, he led the development and delivery of Ernst & Young's advisory services to other global pharmaceutical companies, and he served as an elected member of the firm's Partner Advisory Council. Earlier in his career, Devitt served as an Accounting Fellow for the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
 
"Blake brings both an extensive background in accounting and finance and a familiarity with our industry, which will add significant value and perspective to our board," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., Baxter's chairman and chief executive officer.
 
DEVITT APPOINTED TO BAXTER'S BOARD  Page 2
 
Devitt received a bachelor of science degree in accounting from Bradley University in Peoria, Ill. and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Wisconsin (Madison).
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists health-care professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 


