FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20050421071903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2005, Baxter International Inc. issued the attached press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2005 and reiterating financial guidance for full-year 2005. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press release contains a non-GAAP financial measure, as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, "free cash flow," which is defined as cash flow from continuing operations less capital expenditures, is not a measure defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is used internally to evaluate the company's cash performance and should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow provides the company with the flexibility to reduce debt outstanding, pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock or make strategic investments and acquisitions. Management encourages investors to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
99Press Release dated April 21, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 21, 2005
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., April 21, 2005 - Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported its results for the first quarter of 2005.
 
Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations increased 20 percent to $0.36, compared to $0.30 reported last year. Baxter's income from continuing operations totaled $224 million for the quarter, compared to $187 million reported in the same period last year. Contributing to the growth in earnings were strong sales, improved gross margins and cost savings related to the company's restructuring program.
 
Worldwide sales in the first quarter totaled $2.38 billion, an increase of 8 percent over the same period last year (including a 3 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange). Domestic sales increased 2 percent to $1.04 billion, while international sales grew 13 percent (including a 6 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange) to $1.34 billion. In addition to the positive impact of foreign exchange, strong performance in the company's BioScience business was the primary contributor to sales growth in the quarter. In particular, sales in Baxter's recombinant business grew 18 percent to $344 million, which includes $117 million relating to
 
BAXTER REPORTS FIRST QUARTER RESULTS/Page 2
 
ADVATE , the company's Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin Free Method (rAHF-PFM) product for the treatment of hemophilia A. Medication Delivery's infusion systems and drug delivery businesses also contributed to the company's sales growth in the quarter.
 
"Our first quarter financial results reflect the value inherent in our business, and our ability to deliver on our commitment of increasing earnings at a faster pace than sales growth," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Our focus on disciplined operational execution and emphasis on improving the performance of each of our businesses is clearly yielding substantive financial results for the company, in line with our expectations."
 
Cash flow from continuing operations totaled $271 million for the quarter, compared to an outflow of $53 million in the same period last year. Free cash flow (cash flow from continuing operations, less capital expenditures of $65 million) was $206 million for the quarter, an improvement of $349 million compared to the first quarter last year.
 
"We are very pleased with the significant improvement in free cash flow for the quarter," said John J. Greisch, chief financial officer. "During the quarter, we contributed $100 million to our U.S. pension fund and we settled $254 million of the net investment hedge obligation. We are making good progress in improving our cash flow, which enables us to deal effectively with several balance sheet issues from the past."
 
BAXTER REPORTS FIRST QUARTER RESULTS/Page 3
 
Baxter reiterated its financial guidance for full-year 2005, with organic sales growth of 2 to 4 percent and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.82 to $1.90. Baxter also expects to generate cash flow from continuing operations of approximately $1.5 billion, or free cash flow of approximately $900 million in 2005 (after approximately $600 million of anticipated capital expenditures). The company's guidance does not include the effect of any potential future decision to repatriate foreign earnings relating to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
 
For the second quarter of 2005, the company expects organic sales growth of 2 to 4 percent, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.43 to $0.45.
 
A webcast of Baxter's first quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on Baxter's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on April 21, 2005.
 
Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations, the company's Annual Meeting for stockholders in Chicago on May 3, and a company-sponsored Investor Conference in Chicago on May 25.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 
BAXTER REPORTS FIRST QUARTER RESULTS/Page 4
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including: the company's ability to realize in a timely manner the anticipated benefits of restructuring initiatives; the effect of economic conditions; the impact of geographic and/or product mix on the company's sales; actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and foreign counterparts that could delay, limit or suspend product sales and distribution; product quality and/or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays or declining sales; product development risks; interest rates; technological advances in the medical field; demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; foreign currency exchange rates; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; global regulatory, trade and tax policies; regulatory, legal or other developments relating to the company's A, AF and AX series dialyzers; the ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable cost; the ability to enforce patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; internal and external factors that could impact commercialization; results of product testing; and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions within the bounds of management's knowledge of the company's business and operations, but there can be no assurance that the actual results or performance of the company will conform to any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on them. Actual results could differ materially from such statements. Please refer to Baxter's Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are also available on Baxter's website, for more details concerning important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. The company disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements and all such statements speak only as of the time when made. This news release contains a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, "free cash flow," which is defined as cash flow from continuing operations less capital expenditures, is not a measure defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of this measure is included in this news release.
 
BAXTER  Page 5
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 6
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
 
 
 
As further discussed in the company's SEC filings, during the fourth quarter of 2004 the company executed offsetting or mirror swaps. These mirror swaps fix the net amount the company will ultimately pay to settle the swaps subject to this strategy. After execution of the mirror swaps, as the market value of the fixed portion of the original portfolio decreases, the market value of the mirror swaps increases, and vice versa. At March 31, 2005, 54% of the portfolio was mirrored.
Note:
 
During the first quarter of 2005, the company settled certain swap agreements (and related mirror swaps, as applicable), and made net payments totaling $254 million. In accordance with GAAP, $312 million of outflows were classified in the financing section of the statement of cash flows, and $58 million of inflows were classified in the operating section of the statement of cash flows.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 


