FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20060217172108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On February 14, 2006, the Board of Directors of Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company may repurchase up to $1.5 billion of the Company's common stock at such times and amounts as determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. A copy of the press release dated February 15, 2006 announcing the share repurchase program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     On February 16, 2006, the Company announced that, as required by the terms of the purchase contract component of its equity units issued in December 2002, the holders have satisfied their obligations to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. As a result, the Company will issue approximately 35 million shares of common stock in exchange for approximately $1.25 billion cash proceeds. The settlement will complete Baxter's obligations under the equity units. A copy of the press release dated February 16, 2006 announcing the settlement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
99.1 Press Release dated February 15, 2006
99.2 Press Release dated February 16, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 17, 2006

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     DEERFIELD, Ill., February 15, 2006  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the company's common stock.
     The company can repurchase approximately $250 million in common stock under its previous share repurchase program, which was authorized by the Board in 2002. The new share repurchase program authorized by the Board provides the company greater flexibility to repurchase shares in the future. Shares will be repurchased at times and amounts determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market.
     "Our strong cash position and balance sheet now provide us significant flexibility to both invest in our future growth, including acquisitions and other business development activities, and provide greater value to our shareholders through periodic share repurchases. We plan to do both in a balanced and disciplined manner," said John J. Greisch, corporate vice president and chief financial officer.
 
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: timely realization of the benefits of the company's restructuring initiatives; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and foreign counterparts that could delay, limit or suspend product sales or result in seizures, injunctions and monetary sanctions, including with respect to the COLLEAGUE Infusion Pump; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; interest rates; demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; foreign currency exchange rates; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; global regulatory, trade and tax policies; the ability to enforce patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; results of product testing; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's web site. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     DEERFIELD, Ill., February 16, 2006  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) announced today that, as required by the terms of the purchase contract component of its equity units issued in December 2002, the holders have satisfied their obligations to purchase shares of Baxter common stock. As a result, Baxter will issue today approximately 35 million shares of common stock in exchange for approximately $1.25 billion cash proceeds, which will be used to retire a 5.75% euro bond due in March 2006, for share repurchases, and for other general corporate purposes. The settlement will complete Baxter's obligations under the equity units.
     The equity units, which had been traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol of BAX-P, will be suspended from trading before the opening of trading on February 16, 2006.
     "This marks the achievement of yet another important milestone in our efforts to strengthen our balance sheet and enhance our financial flexibility," explained John J. Greisch, corporate vice president and chief financial officer. "We are now well-positioned to deliver value with a balanced and disciplined approach toward
 
capital allocation and investments in R&D, acquisitions and other business development opportunities."
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, kidney disease and trauma. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: timely realization of the benefits of the company's restructuring initiatives; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and foreign counterparts that could delay, limit or suspend product sales or result in seizures, injunctions and monetary sanctions, including with respect to the COLLEAGUE Infusion Pump; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; interest rates; demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; foreign currency exchange rates; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; global regulatory, trade and tax policies; the ability to enforce patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; results of product testing; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's web site. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.


