FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20060518172545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     Effective May 17, 2006, John J. Greisch, age 50, was elected to serve as Corporate Vice President and President, International of Baxter International Inc. (the ""). Previously, he served as the Company's Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting officer), having served in that capacity since June 2004. From January to June 2004, he was a Corporate Vice President of Baxter World Trade Corporation and Baxter Healthcare Corporation and President  BioScience. Prior to that, Mr. Greisch served as Vice President of Finance and Strategy for the BioScience division from May 2003 to January 2004 and as Vice President of Finance for the Renal division from March 2002 until April 2003. Prior to joining Baxter, he was president and chief executive officer of FleetPride Corporation, a distribution company, from 1998 until 2001.
Company
     Robert M. Davis, age 39, was elected to succeed Mr. Greisch as the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Accordingly, effective May 17, 2006, Mr. Davis will hold the title Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (principal financial officer). Mr. Davis has served as Corporate Vice President and Treasurer of the Company since November 2004. From January 1990 to November 2004, Mr. Davis was employed by Eli Lilly and Company. During that time, Mr. Davis held numerous financial positions, including assistant treasurer, director of corporate financial planning and tax counsel.
     As previously announced, Michael J. Baughman, age 41, was elected to serve as the Company's Corporate Vice President and Controller. In that capacity, effective May 17, 2006, Mr. Baughman will serve as the Company's principal accounting officer. Mr. Baughman joined the Company in 2003 as Vice President Corporate Audit and has served as Controller since March 2005. Prior to joining Baxter, Mr. Baughman had a 16-year career at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, during which he held a number of senior roles, including audit partner and partner in the firm's mergers and acquisitions practice.
     Each of Mr. Greisch, Mr. Davis and Mr. Baughman will hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On May 9, 2006, the Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders and shareholders approved amendments to Article FIFTH of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. Accordingly, the Company has filed an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) The following exhibit is filed herewith:
          3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 18, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
     Baxter International Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of Delaware, does hereby certify as follows:
     (1) The name of the corporation is Baxter International Inc. The name under which it was originally incorporated was Don Baxter Intravenous Products Corporation. The date of filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation was October 19, 1931.
     (2) This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the corporation and its stockholders in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
     (3) This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and further amends the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, as heretofore amended or supplemented.
     (4) The text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended or supplemented, is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
     The name of the corporation is Baxter International Inc. (hereinafter in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation called the "Corporation").
FIRST:
     The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is located at 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent of the corporation is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND:
     The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
THIRD:
     The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is two billion, one hundred million (2,100,000,000) shares, of which one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of no par value shall be preferred stock (the "Preferred Stock") and of which two billion (2,000,000,000) shares, of the par value of U.S. one dollar (U.S. $1.00) each, amounting in the aggregate to U.S. two billion dollars (U.S. $2,000,000,000), shall be common stock (the "Common Stock").
FOURTH:
     Authority is hereby expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation to provide for the issue of the Preferred Stock in one or more series and in connection therewith to fix by resolutions providing for the issue of such series the number of shares to be included in such series and the designations and such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such of the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series of the Preferred Stock which are not fixed by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the
 
State of Delaware. Without limiting the generality of the grant of authority contained in the preceding sentence, the Board of Directors is authorized to determine any or all of the following, and the shares of each series may vary from the shares of any other series in any or all of the following respects:
     1. The number of shares of such series (which may subsequently be increased, except as otherwise provided by the resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series, or decreased to a number not less than the number of shares then outstanding) and the distinctive designation thereof;
     2. The dividend rights, if any, of such series, the dividend preferences, if any, as between such series and any other class or series of stock, whether and the extent to which shares of such series shall be entitled to participate in dividends with shares of any other series or class of stock, whether and the extent to which dividends on such series shall be cumulative, and any limitations, restrictions or conditions on the payment of such dividends;
     3. The time or times during which, the price or prices at which, and any other terms or conditions on which the shares of such series may be redeemed, if redeemable;
     4. The rights of such series, and the preferences, if any, as between such series and any other class or series of stock, in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and whether and the extent to which shares of any such series shall be entitled to participate in such event with any other class or series of stock;
     5. The voting powers, if any, in addition to the voting powers prescribed by law of shares of such series, and the terms of exercise of such voting powers;
     6. Whether shares of such series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other series or class of stock, or any other securities, and the terms and conditions, if any, applicable to such rights;
     7. The terms and conditions, if any, of any purchase, retirement or sinking fund which may be provided for the shares of such series.
Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock:
     The terms of the Corporation's Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock are incorporated from the Certificate of Designation pursuant to which it was created into the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as follows:
     RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of this Corporation by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, a series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation be and it hereby is created, and that the designations, powers, preferences and relative and other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:
     SECTION 1. DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT.
     The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 3,500,000.
 
     SECTION 2. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.
     (A) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $5.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all noncash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, par value $1 per share, of the Corporation (the "Common Stock") since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after November 17, 1998 (the "Rights Declaration Date") (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Paragraph (A) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior to and superior to the shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, a dividend of $5.00 per share on the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
     (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating
 
Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payments thereof.
     SECTION 3. VOTING RIGHTS.
     The holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
     (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holder of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote collectively as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (C) If at any time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors a default in preference dividends on the Preferred Stock shall exist, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Preferred Stock of all series shall have the right at such meeting, voting together as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships. Such right shall continue until there are no dividends in arrears upon the Preferred Stock. Each director elected by the holders of shares of Preferred Stock (herein called a "Preferred Director"), shall continue to serve as such director for the full term for which he shall have been elected, notwithstanding that prior to the end of such term a default in preference dividends shall cease to exist. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of holders of record of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class without regard to series, at a meeting of the stockholders, or of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, called for the purpose. So long as a default in any preference dividends on the Preferred Stock shall exist (A) any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (B)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (B) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class without regard to series, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid by the remaining Preferred Director shall be deemed, for all purposes hereof, to be a Preferred Director. Whenever the term of office of the Preferred Directors shall end and a default in preference dividends shall no longer exist, the number of directors, constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be reduced by two. For the purposes hereof, a "default in preference dividends" on the Preferred Stock shall be deemed to have occurred whenever the amount of accrued dividends upon any series of the Preferred Stock shall be equivalent to six full quarter yearly dividends or more, and, having so occurred, such default shall be deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all accrued dividends on all shares of Preferred Stock of each and every series then outstanding shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment to the end of the last preceding quarterly dividend period.
 
     (D) Except as set forth herein, holders of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
     SECTION 4. CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
     (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or distributions payable on the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
     (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
     SECTION 5. REACQUIRED SHARES.
     Any shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition
 
thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
     SECTION 6. LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP.
     (A) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series B Liquidation Preference"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series B Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series B Liquidation Preference by (ii) 100 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph (C) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series B Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
     (B) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series B Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
     (C) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     SECTION 7. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC.
     In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into
 
which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     SECTION 8. NO REDEMPTION.
     The shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
     SECTION 9. RANKING.
     The Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets whether or not upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
     SECTION 10. AMENDMENT.
     The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be further amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
     SECTION 11. FRACTIONAL SHARES.
     Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
     The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be the number from time to time fixed by the Board of Directors but in no event shall be less than nine or more than seventeen. A decrease in the number of directors shall not affect the term of office of any director then in office.
FIFTH:
     Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office; and any other vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
     The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes. The term of office for one class of directors will expire each year at the annual meeting of stockholders, or thereafter in each case until the directors' respective successors are elected and qualified. The directors chosen to succeed those whose terms are expiring shall be identified as being of the same class as the directors whom they
SIXTH:
 
succeed and shall be elected for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders or thereafter in each case until their respective successors are elected and qualified, subject to death, resignation, retirement or removal from office.
     Any new positions created as a result of the increase in the number of directors shall be allocated to make the classes of directors as nearly equal as possible. Any director elected to fill a term resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same term as the other members of his class. A director elected to fill any other vacancy shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the certificate of incorporation applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article unless expressly provided by such terms.
SIXTH
     This Article may not be amended or repealed without the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the holders of all the securities of the Corporation then entitled to vote on such change.
SIXTH
     The Board of Directors shall have such powers as are permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, including, without limitation, without the assent or vote of the stockholders, to make, alter, amend, change, add to, or repeal the by-laws of the Corporation; to fix and vary the amount to be reserved as working capital; to authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens upon all the property of the Corporation, or any part thereof; to determine the use and disposition of any surplus or net profits over and above the capital stock paid in; and to fix the times for the declaration and payment of dividends.
SEVENTH:
     To the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, a director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director.
EIGHTH:
     The Corporation shall indemnify and advance expenses to each person who serves as an officer or director of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation and each person who serves or may have served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise from any liability incurred as a result of such service to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware as it may from time to time be amended, except with respect to an action commenced by such director or officer against the Corporation or by such director or officer as a derivative action by or in the right of the Corporation. Each person who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation and each officer or director who commences any action against the Corporation or a derivative action by or in the right of the Corporation may be similarly indemnified and receive an advance of expenses at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
NINTH:
     The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
 
     The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware law.
     The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
     No amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or repeal of any Article of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall increase the liability or alleged liability or reduce or limit the right to indemnification of any directors, officers or employees of the Corporation for acts or omissions of such person occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
TENTH:
     No action which requires the vote or consent of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting and vote of stockholders and the power of stockholders to consent in writing without a meeting to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
ELEVENTH:
     Baxter International Inc. has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed on its behalf this 16 day of May, 2006.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
th


