FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20070719071320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Results.
On July 19, 2007, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2007. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures are used in addition to results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the companys operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the company's business. Management strongly encourages investors to review the companys consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted earnings per diluted share and net income, excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the companys reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures facilitate a fuller analysis of the companys results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor performance, and in setting performance compensation targets.
The press release also uses free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and is not a measure defined in accordance with GAAP. This measure is used internally to evaluate the companys cash performance, and management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure to investors in that it provides a representation of the companys cash level available to reduce debt outstanding, pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock or make strategic investments and acquisitions.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 19, 2007
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
M
edia Contacts:
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (
847) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (847)
948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., July 19, 2007 - Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported stronger-than-expected financial results for the second quarter of 2007 and raised its full-year 2007 earnings guidance.
 
Baxter reported second quarter net income of $431 million, an increase of 39 percent over the $309 million reported in the second quarter of 2006. Net earnings per diluted share increased 38 percent to $0.65. These results include an after-tax charge of $46 million ($0.07 per diluted share) primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside the United States. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in the current and prior-year periods, Baxter reported net income of $477 million or $0.72 per diluted share, an increase of 28 percent and 26 percent respectively. These results compare favorably to the earnings guidance previously provided for the quarter of $0.66 to $0.68 per diluted share, and were the result of solid revenue gains, strong operational performance led by margin expansion, as well as lower interest and income tax expense.
 
BAXTER RAISES 2007 EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOLLOWING STRONG SECOND QUARTER -- Page Two
Baxters worldwide sales totaled $2.8 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 7 percent (or 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange). Sales within the United States totaled $1.2 billion, an increase of 1 percent over the same period last year, while sales outside of the United States grew 12 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange) to $1.6 billion. As previously announced, the company completed the divestiture of its Transfusion Therapies business during the first quarter of 2007. Excluding Transfusion Therapies revenues from both years, Baxters worldwide sales increased 10 percent (or 7 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange) to $2.8 billion from $2.5 billion recorded in the prior year.   
 
Baxters BioScience business generated a 20 percent increase in revenues, with sales totaling $1.2 billion. This performance was a result of robust growth across multiple products, including
ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method]
, a therapy used in the treatment of hemophilia A, antibody therapy products for the treatment of primary immunodeficiencies, and other specialty plasma therapeutics such as FEIBA (an inhibitor therapy indicated for the control of spontaneous bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia A and hemophilia B) and ARALAST (a human alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (A1PI) for patients with hereditary emphysema). This business also posted record vaccine sales in the quarter driven by continued demand in Europe for its vaccines that prevent tick-borne encephalitis and group C meningococcal meningitis.
BAXTER RAISES 2007 EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOLLOWING STRONG SECOND QUARTER -- Page Three
 
In the second quarter, Medication Delivery revenues increased 3 percent as a result of strong international performance of anesthesia and parenteral nutrition products, and Renal revenues increased 7 percent to $553 million as the company continued to realize solid gains in the number of peritoneal dialysis patients, primarily in developing countries.
 
We continue to meet or exceed our short-term financial objectives while investing to create long-term value for our shareholders, said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. Our strong financial results in the first half of this year not only validate the
strength of our diversified healthcare model, but also reinforce our confidence in achieving our longer-term objectives
.
 
Baxters investment in research and development increased 21 percent in the quarter, and the company achieved a number of commercial, clinical and regulatory milestones during the period, including:
 
BAXTER RAISES 2007 EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOLLOWING STRONG SECOND QUARTER -- Page Four
 
Six-Month Results
For the first six months of 2007, Baxters net income totaled $834 million and increased 41 percent, with earnings per diluted share increasing 40 percent to $1.26. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items, Baxters net income of $880 million increased 34 percent
 
from $655 million last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the six-month period of $1.33 increased 33 percent, from $1.00 per diluted share in the prior year period.
 
Baxters worldwide sales grew 9 percent in the first half of the year to
$5.5 billion, up from $5.1 billion last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, organic sales growth for the first six months of the year was 5 percent. Sales within the United States totaled $2.3 billion, an increase of 4 percent over the same period last year, and international sales grew 13 percent (or 7 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange) to $3.2 billion. Excluding revenues related to the Transfusion Therapies business, Baxters worldwide sales increased 12 percent (or 8 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange) to $5.4 billion from $4.8 billion recorded in the prior year.   
BAXTER RAISES 2007 EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOLLOWING STRONG SECOND QUARTER -- Page Five
Cash flow from operations totaled $946 million for the six-month period, compared to $848 million in the same period in 2006. Free cash flow (cash flow from operations, less capital expenditures of $258 million for the first six months of 2007) was $688 million, reflecting an improvement of $38 million from the same period last year.
 
Third Quarter and Full-Year 2007 Outlook
 
Given its strong financial results for the first half of the year, Baxter is raising its earnings outlook for full-year 2007. The company now expects to achieve earnings per diluted share of $2.65 to $2.70, compared to its previous range of $2.60 to $2.65, both excluding special items. Baxter continues to expect sales growth of 4 to 5 percent for the year, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. In addition, Baxter continues to expect cash flow from operations for full-year 2007 to total approximately $2.3 billion.
 
For the third quarter of 2007, Baxter expects sales growth of 3 to 4 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and earnings per diluted share, before any special items, of $0.64 to $0.66.
 
The financial outlook for the third quarter and full-year 2007 reflects the divestiture of the Transfusion Therapies business and excludes recommercialization of the companys COLLEAGUE infusion pump in the United States, which may occur before the end of 2007.
 
BAXTER RAISES 2007 EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOLLOWING STRONG SECOND QUARTER -- Page Six
A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at
www.baxter.com
beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 19, 2007. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including hemophilia, immune disorders, cancer, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma and other conditions. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and
 
foreign counterparts, that could limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient
 
safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the companys website.
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 7
 
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 8
 
2007 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2007 included restructuring charges, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
2006 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2006 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 10
  
 
2007 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2007 included restructuring charges, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
2006 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2006 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 11
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 12
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 13
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 14
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 15
 
 
 


