FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20071018071119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Results.
On October 18, 2007, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures are used in addition to results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the companys operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the company's business. Management strongly encourages investors to review the companys consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per diluted share, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the companys reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures facilitate a fuller analysis of the companys results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor performance, and in setting performance compensation targets.
The press release also uses free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and is not a measure defined in accordance with GAAP. This measure is used internally to evaluate the companys performance, and management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure to investors in that it provides a representation of the companys cash level available to reduce debt outstanding, pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock or make strategic investments and acquisitions.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 18, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
M
edia Contact:
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (
847) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (847)
948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., October 18, 2007 - Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced strong financial results for the period ended September 30, 2007 and raised its full-year outlook for the third consecutive quarter.
 
Third quarter net income of $395 million increased 6 percent compared to $374 million reported in the third quarter of 2006. Net earnings per diluted share of $0.61 increased 7 percent from $0.57 in the prior year period. These results include after-tax charges in the third quarter of 2007 totaling $63 million or $0.09 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items, Baxter reported net income of
$458 million and net earnings per diluted share of $0.70, an increase of 22 percent and 23 percent, respectively. These results compare favorably to the earnings guidance previously provided by the company of $0.64 to $0.66 per diluted share.
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTERPage 2
 
In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the company recorded an after-tax charge of $29 million ($0.04 per diluted share) for
in-process R&D (IPR&D) associated with the companys recently announced collaborations with DEKA Research & Development Corp. and HHD, LLC, and Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. In addition, the companys results include an after-tax charge of $34 million ($0.05 per diluted share) to establish reserves for previously disclosed Average Wholesale Pricing (AWP) litigation.
 
Baxters worldwide sales totaled approximately $2.8 billion in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of 8 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange). Sales within the United States totaled $1.2 billion, an increase of 9 percent over the same period last year, while international sales of $1.5 billion grew 7 percent. As previously announced, the company completed the divestiture of its Transfusion Therapies business during the first quarter of 2007. Excluding Transfusion Therapies revenues from both 2007 and 2006 for comparison purposes, Baxters global sales increased 11 percent to $2.7 billion from $2.4 billion recorded in the prior year.   
 
Revenues from Baxters BioScience business totaled $1.1 billion and increased 14 percent over the prior-year period, driven by double-digit growth across multiple product categories. Sales of ADVATE
[Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method]
, a therapy used in the treatment of hemophilia A, exceeded $300 million in the quarter as the company continued to drive global conversion to the therapy. Robust sales of plasma therapeutics, antibody therapy products for the treatment of immunodeficiencies, and biosurgery products used for hemostasis, tissue sealing and tissue repair also contributed to the business performance.
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTERPage 3
 
Revenues from Baxters Medication Delivery business grew 10 percent to
$1.0 billion in the third quarter, primarily as a result of strong global sales of anesthesia, intravenous solutions and parenteral nutrition products. Renal revenues of $0.6 billion increased 8 percent, as the company continued to realize solid gains in the number of peritoneal dialysis patients it serves, particularly in developing countries.
 
The company remains focused on executing our strategies and continuing to build shareholder value, said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman  and chief executive officer. Our consistent, strong operational performance, driven by
our focus on gross margin expansion affords us the opportunity to accelerate investments to grow our business for the longer-term, while at the same time, allowing us to meet or exceed our shorter-term objectives.
 
Baxters investment in research and development increased 36 percent (or 13 percent on an adjusted basis) in the quarter; and the company announced several collaborations and agreements during the period, including:
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTERPage 4
 
 
We are very pleased with the quality of our financial performance overall, and in particular the ongoing strength of our cash flow, said Robert
M. Davis, chief financial officer.
Our strong financial position allowed us the flexibility to invest in long-term growth through research and development and business development initiatives, as well as to increase our share repurchases in the quarter.
 
During the third quarter, Baxter repurchased 15.3 million shares of common stock, for approximately $827 million. For the first nine months of 2007, the company repurchased a total of $1.6 billion in common stock, or 30.4 million shares. In addition,
following the payment of the 2006 annual dividend in January, Baxter reinstituted a quarterly schedule for payment of dividends in April of this year and increased the annual dividend rate for 2007 by 15 percent. As a result of these activities, Baxter has returned more than $2.0 billion to shareholders year-to-date.
 
Nine-Month Results
 
For the first nine months of 2007, Baxters net income totaled $1.2 billion and increased 27 percent, with earnings per diluted share increasing 27 percent to $1.87. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items from both 2007 and 2006, Baxters year-to-date net income of $1.3 billion grew 30 percent from the $1.0 billion reported last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 29 percent to $2.03, from $1.57 per diluted share in the prior year period.
 
Baxters worldwide sales increased 8 percent in the first three quarters of the year to approximately $8.3 billion, up from $7.6 billion reported for the same period last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth for the first nine months of 2007 was 5 percent. Sales within the United States totaled $3.5 billion, an
increase of 6 percent over the same period last year, and international sales grew
11 percent to $4.7 billion. Excluding revenues related to the Transfusion Therapies business, Baxters worldwide sales of $8.1 billion increased 11 percent from
$7.2 billion recorded in the prior year.   
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTERPage 5
 
Cash flows from operations totaled $1.55 billion for the nine-month period, an improvement of approximately $130 million compared to $1.42 billion in the same period in 2006. Free cash flow (cash flows from operations, less capital expenditures of $424 million for the first nine months of 2007) was $1.1 billion for the first nine months of 2007.
 
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2007 Outlook
 
Given its strong financial results year-to-date, Baxter is raising its earnings outlook for full-year 2007. The company now expects to achieve earnings per diluted
share of $2.75 to $2.77, compared to its previous range of $2.65 to $2.70, both excluding special items. Baxter continues to expect sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of 4 to 5 percent for the year. Excluding the Transfusion Therapies business from both 2006 and 2007, sales growth (excluding foreign exchange) is expected to approximate 8 percent. In addition, Baxter continues to
expect cash flows from operations for full-year 2007 to total approximately
$2.3 billion.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2007, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of 2 to 3 percent, and earnings per diluted share, before any special items, of $0.72 to $0.74. Excluding the Transfusion Therapies business from both the 2006 and 2007 fourth quarters, sales growth (excluding foreign exchange) is expected to approximate 7 percent.
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTERPage 6
 
A webcast of Baxter's third quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at
www.baxter.com
beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on October 18, 2007. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, assists healthcare professionals and their patients with the treatment of complex medical conditions, including hemophilia, immune disorders, cancer, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma and other conditions. The company applies its expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to make a meaningful difference in patients' lives.
 
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and
 
foreign counterparts, that could limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient
 
safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or
declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the companys website.
BAXTER -- PAGE 7
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, net income and per-share earnings, excluding certain items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
BAXTER -- PAGE 8
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2007 included a charge related to the AWP litigation, and IPR&D charges related to the company's collaboration for the development of a next-generation home hemodialysis machine and the company's in-licensing arrangement with Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
(A) Included in the Marketing and Administrative Expenses line in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. Excluding this item, adjusted marketing and administrative expenses were $607 million, or 22.1% of sales.
 
(B) Included in the Research and Development Expenses line in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. Excluding this item, adjusted research and development expenses were $168 million, or 6.1% of sales.
BAXTER -- PAGE 9
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, net income and per-share earnings, excluding certain items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
BAXTER -- PAGE 10
 
2007 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 included restructuring charges, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, a charge related to the AWP litigation, and IPR&D charges related to the company's collaboration for the development of a next-generation home hemodialysis machine and the company's in-licensing arrangement with Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
Included in the Marketing and Administrative Expenses line in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. Excluding this item, adjusted marketing and administrative expenses were $1.81 billion, or 21.9% of sales.
(A)
 
Included in the Research and Development Expenses line in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. Excluding this item, adjusted research and development expenses were $504 million, or 6.1% of sales.
(B)
 
2006 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
Included in the Gross Profit line in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. Excluding this item, adjusted gross profit was $3.50 billion and the adjusted gross profit percentage was 45.9% .
(C)
BAXTER -- PAGE 11
BAXTER -- PAGE 12
 
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 13
BAXTER -- PAGE 14
 
 
BAXTER -- PAGE 15
 
 


