FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20081016071553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On October 16, 2008, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting the company's operations. Management strongly encourages investors to review the company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted income tax expense and adjusted R&D expenses, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures facilitate a more useful analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 16, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., October 16, 2008  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) posted strong financial results for the third quarter of 2008, which compared favorably to the guidance previously provided, and raised its full-year 2008 earnings outlook.
     Baxter reported third quarter net income of $472 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to $395 million reported in the third quarter of 2007. Earnings per diluted share of $0.74 increased 21 percent from $0.61 per diluted share in the prior year period. The third quarter results include after-tax special charges totaling $91 million (or $0.14 per diluted share) for fixed asset write-offs associated with the discontinuation of the company's CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, additional remediation costs associated with the company's COLLEAGUE infusion pump, and costs for in-process research and development (IPR&D) related to the company's recently announced collaboration with
 
BAXTER'S SALES, EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROW  Page 2
Innocoll Pharmaceuticals Ltd. The company recorded after-tax special charges in the third quarter of 2007 totaling $63 million (or $0.09 per diluted share).
     On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges, Baxter reported third quarter net income of $563 million and net earnings per diluted share of $0.88, an increase of 23 percent and 26 percent respectively, which compared favorably to the earnings guidance previously provided of $0.81 to $0.83 per diluted share. Strong financial performance was the result of accelerating sales, continued margin improvement, and a lower tax rate.
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $3.2 billion in the third quarter, an increase of 15 percent (or 9 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange), driven by particularly strong performance from the company's international businesses. Renal sales increased 6 percent to approximately $600 million due to the expanded use of peritoneal dialysis in many developed and emerging markets around the world, while Medication Delivery sales of approximately $1.2 billion increased 11 percent as a result of strong international sales.
     Sales in Baxter's BioScience business totaled approximately $1.4 billion, with record growth of 23 percent. Sales accelerated across the portfolio, resulting in double-digit sales increases for all major product categories. This performance can be attributed to robust growth from several products, including ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method (rAHF-PFM)] and GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (IGIV)], marketed as KIOVIG in the European Union, as well as accelerated
 
BAXTER'S SALES, EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROW  Page 3
growth from other plasma-based therapies and biosurgery products.
     "In addition to delivering strong sales and earnings for the third quarter, we continue to leverage our diversified healthcare model and capitalize on our broad global presence, while remaining committed to our strategic objective of accelerating the pace of R&D spending," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
     The company continues to increase investments in R&D, which totaled $230 million and increased 13 percent (or 30 percent excluding the impact of special charges taken for IPR&D in both the current and prior year periods). The company continues to make progress on a number of R&D and new product initiatives, including:
 
BAXTER'S SALES, EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROW  Page 4
Nine-Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2008, Baxter's net income totaled $1.4 billion and increased 18 percent, with earnings per diluted share increasing 21 percent to $2.26. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items for both 2007 and 2008, Baxter's net income of $1.6 billion increased 18 percent from $1.3 billion in the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the nine-month period increased 22 percent to $2.47 from $2.03 per diluted share in the prior year period.
     Baxter's worldwide sales grew 12 percent in the first three quarters of the year to $9.2 billion, an increase from $8.3 billion in the same period last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth for the first nine months of the year was 5 percent.
     Cash flows from operations totaled $1.9 billion for the nine-month period, an improvement of more than $300 million compared to $1.6 billion in the same period in 2007.
     "The medically-necessary nature of our product offering, our diversified portfolio and global presence, and our financial strength and flexibility, provide us with a solid foundation in this uncertain global economy," continued Parkinson. "We remain committed to providing enhanced value to our shareholders through predictable and sustainable operational growth, commensurate with our competencies and long-range strategies."
 
BAXTER'S SALES, EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROW  Page 5
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2008 Outlook
     Baxter raised its full-year 2008 earnings outlook and for the first time provided fourth quarter guidance. For the full year, the company continues to expect sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of 5 to 6 percent, and now expects earnings per diluted share of $3.35 to $3.37, before any special items. In addition, the company now expects cash flow from operations to exceed $2.6 billion.
     For the fourth quarter of 2008, Baxter expects sales growth of approximately 7 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and earnings per diluted share, before any special items, of $0.88 to $0.90.
     A webcast of Baxter's third quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on October 16, 2008. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
     Baxter International Inc. develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, cancer, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future
 
BAXTER'S SALES, EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROW  Page 6
actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, income tax expense, net income, and diluted EPS, excluding specified items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2008 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and an IPR&D charge related to the company's licensing agreement with Innocoll, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2007 included a charge related to the AWP litigation and IPR&D charges related to the company's collaboration with HHD, LLC and the company's in-licensing arrangement with Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2007 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, income tax expense, net income, and diluted EPS, excluding specified items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 included charges related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and an IPR&D charge related to the company's licensing agreement with Innocoll, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 included a restructuring charge, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, a charge related to the AWP litigation, and IPR&D charges related to the company's collaboration with HHD, LLC and the company's in-licensing arrangement with Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2007 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
Changes in Net Debt
Increase (decrease)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15


