FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20080717070940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On July 17, 2008, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the company's operations. Management strongly encourages investors to review the company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted pre-tax income and adjusted income tax expense each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures facilitate a more useful analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in comparing performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 17, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Baxter International Inc. One Baxter Parkway Deerfield, IL 60015
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., July 17, 2008  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today posted strong financial results for the second quarter of 2008 and raised its full-year financial outlook.
     For the second quarter, Baxter reported net income of $544 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.85, which compared favorably to the company's earnings guidance of $0.81 to $0.83 per diluted share. Net income increased 26 percent compared to $431 million reported in the second quarter of 2007, and earnings per diluted share increased 31 percent from $0.65 per diluted share reported last year. 2007 results include an after-tax restructuring charge of $46 million or $0.07 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, net income and earnings per diluted share increased 14 percent and 18 percent, respectively, compared to the prior year period.
     The company's strong financial performance can be attributed to continued gross margin expansion as a result of enhanced business, product and geographic mix, favorable pricing across multiple businesses and manufacturing efficiencies.
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG SECOND QUARTER  Page 2
     "Our positive financial performance in the first half of 2008 continues to reflect the strength of our diversified business model, and positions us well in this uncertain global economy," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $3.2 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 13 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange). Positive momentum continued in Baxter's BioScience business in the second quarter, with revenues totaling approximately $1.4 billion, an increase of 16 percent. Double-digit growth across the portfolio was the result of robust sales of plasma-based therapies, products used for the treatment of hemophilia and immune disorders, biosurgery products and strong demand for the company's encephalitis vaccine.
     Medication Delivery sales grew 12 percent in the quarter to approximately $1.2 billion, driven by strong international sales of IV therapy products and injectable drugs, as well as anesthesia products globally. Renal sales increased 8 percent to approximately $600 million as a result of an increase in peritoneal dialysis patients in many markets around the world.
     The company continues to advance its product pipeline across its business portfolio. Investments in research and development in the quarter totaled $222 million, reflecting an increase of 25 percent over the prior-year period.
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2008, Baxter's net income totaled $973 million and increased 17 percent, with earnings per diluted share increasing 21 percent to $1.52. On an adjusted basis, Baxter's net income of $1.0 billion increased 16 percent from $880 million last year.
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG SECOND QUARTER  Page 3
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the six-month period of $1.59 increased 20 percent, from $1.33 per diluted share in the prior year period.
     Baxter's worldwide sales grew 10 percent in the first half of the year to $6.1 billion, an increase from $5.5 billion last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth for the first six months of the year was 3 percent. Sales within the United States totaled $2.4 billion, an increase of 4 percent over the same period last year, and international sales grew 15 percent (or 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign exchange) to $3.6 billion.
Third Quarter and Full-Year 2008 Outlook
     As a result of the strong performance in the first half of the year, Baxter is raising its financial outlook for full-year 2008. The company expects sales growth for the year, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of 5 to 6 percent, with earnings per diluted share of $3.28 to $3.32, before any special items. This compares to the company's previous earnings guidance of $3.18 to $3.24. In addition, the company expects cash flow from operations of at least $2.6 billion.
     For the third quarter of 2008, Baxter expects sales growth of 6 to 8 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and earnings per diluted share, before any special items, of $0.81 to $0.83.
     A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 17, 2008. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
 
BAXTER REPORTS STRONG SECOND QUARTER  Page 4
     Baxter International Inc. develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, cancer, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on
Form 10-K
and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 5
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, net income and per-share earnings, excluding certain items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 6
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2007 included a restructuring charge, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, net income and per-share earnings, excluding certain items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
2008 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2008 included a first quarter charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2007 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2007 included a restructuring charge, primarily for costs and asset impairments associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
Changes in Net Debt
Increase (decrease)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13


