FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20090416071824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 16, 2009, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      (d) Exhibits.
           99.1 Press Release dated April 16, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 16, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., April 16, 2009  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported first quarter net income of $516 million, an increase of 20 percent from $429 million reported in the first quarter of 2008. Earnings per diluted share of $0.83 increased 24 percent from $0.67 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period, and favorably compares to the guidance the company previously provided of $0.80 to $0.82 per diluted share. This performance was the continued result of strong underlying fundamentals across the portfolio and improved margins, driven by operational leverage and favorable business and product mix.
     On an adjusted basis, excluding 2008 special items, Baxter's first quarter net income increased 9 percent to $516 million from $474 million reported in the prior-year period, and earnings per diluted share increased 12 percent to $0.83 from $0.74 per diluted share reported in the first quarter of 2008.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 2
ST
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $2.8 billion in the first quarter and declined 2 percent. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales increased 6 percent. Sales within the United States increased 5 percent to $1.2 billion, while international sales declined 7 percent to $1.6 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 7 percent.
     In the first quarter, Medication Delivery sales of $1.0 billion declined 3 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 6 percent). Renal sales of $515 million declined 8 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 1 percent). These results were driven by growth across core components of these portfolios, including the peritoneal dialysis (PD) franchise, anesthesia products, intravenous therapies and global injectables.
     Fundamentals continue to be strong in Baxter's BioScience business. In the first quarter, BioScience revenues totaled $1.3 billion and increased 3 percent. Excluding foreign currency, BioScience sales advanced 11 percent, reflecting strong double-digit gains across multiple product categories. Key drivers of this performance include notable growth from antibody therapy and plasma-protein products across the globe, continued conversion to ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method], for the treatment of hemophilia, and strong sales of biosurgery products.
     "Despite the challenging, global macro-economic environment, our first quarter financial results underscore the value of our diversified healthcare
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 3
ST
model, the solid fundamentals underpinning our portfolio, and our disciplined focus on driving margin improvement," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe that we are very well-positioned given our broad geographic reach and the medically-necessary nature of our portfolio to expand access to care, improve treatments and enhance the quality of life for patients around the world."
Second Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Outlook
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for the second quarter 2009 and provided updated guidance for the full year.
     For the second quarter of 2009, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of approximately 7 percent. Based on current foreign exchange rates, the company expects reported sales (including the impact of foreign exchange) to decline in low single digits when compared to sales in the second quarter of 2008. The company also expects earnings per diluted share for the second quarter of $0.93 to $0.95, before any special items.
     For the full year, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of approximately 7 percent. Based on current foreign exchange rates, Baxter expects reported sales growth to be approximately flat. In addition, the company now expects earnings per diluted share of $3.72 to $3.78, before any special items, and continues to expect cash flow from operations to total more than $2.6 billion.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 4
ST
     "Our 2009 guidance reflects the ongoing operational strength of our businesses and our ability to deliver sustainable growth," concluded Robert M. Davis, chief financial officer. "Although we continue to operate in a volatile and challenging macro-environment which continues to evolve, we remain focused on delivering to our objectives while making appropriate investments for the future."
     A webcast of Baxter's first quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on April 16, 2009. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including the company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in Chicago on May 5, 2009 and Baxter's Investor Conference to be held in Chicago on September 16, 2009.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2009. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 5
ST
foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 6
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51" (SFAS No. 160). The new standard requires that a company present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 160, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense (income), net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2008 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
Changes in Net Debt
Increase (decrease)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11


