FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20090122071719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 22, 2009, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2008. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting the company's operations. Management strongly encourages investors to review the company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety.
The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted income tax expense and adjusted R&D expenses, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 22, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., January 22, 2009  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced record sales, earnings and cash flow for 2008, including strong financial results for the fourth quarter that exceeded previously issued guidance. The company also provided its financial outlook for 2009.
Summary of Fourth Quarter Results
     Baxter reported fourth quarter net income of $569 million, an increase of 19 percent from the $478 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2007. Earnings per diluted share of $0.91 increased 23 percent from the $0.74 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. These results include an after-tax special charge of approximately $5 million for in-process research and development related to the acquisition of certain technology applicable to the company's BioScience business.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 2
TH
     On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges in 2008 and 2007, Baxter's net income in the fourth quarter totaled $574 million, an increase of 18 percent over the $488 million reported for the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.91 increased 20 percent from the $0.76 reported last year, and exceeded the company's earnings guidance for the fourth quarter of $0.88 to $0.90 per diluted share. Baxter's strong financial performance was the result of continued momentum and strong fundamentals across the portfolio, improved margins, and a lower tax rate.
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter, and increased 4 percent. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales increased 9 percent and exceeded the company's guidance of approximately 7 percent growth. Sales within the United States increased 6 percent to $1.4 billion, while international sales grew 3 percent to $1.8 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, Baxter's international sales grew 10 percent.
     Medication Delivery sales of $1.2 billion increased 2 percent (or 7 percent excluding foreign exchange) driven by strength in IV therapies, anesthesia products and injectables. Renal sales of $557 million declined by 7 percent (or declined 3 percent excluding foreign exchange). With more than 80 percent of sales outside the U.S., this business was significantly impacted by the stronger U.S. dollar, as well as a decline in sales of the company's lower-margin hemodialysis products and a difficult growth comparison created by the loss of the peritoneal dialysis (PD) tender in Mexico in the first quarter of 2008.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 3
TH
     In Baxter's BioScience business, positive momentum continued in the fourth quarter with revenues totaling $1.4 billion, an increase of 12 percent. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, BioScience sales grew 17 percent, reflecting strong double-digit sales growth across all product categories. Driving this performance was robust growth from several products used for the treatment of hemophilia and immune disorders, including ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method (rAHF-PFM)] and GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (IGIV)], as well as solid growth from other plasma-based therapies, biosurgery products and vaccines.
     "Baxter had another very successful year in 2008," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We exceeded expectations on all key financial metrics throughout the year, which illustrates the solid fundamentals underpinning our portfolio and expanded geographic reach. Despite a challenging, global macro-environment, we're very well-positioned to continue to meet our commitments, leverage the benefits of our diversified healthcare model, and continue with our strategic priority of accelerating investment in research and development."
Full-Year Results
     For full-year 2008, Baxter's net income totaled $2.0 billion and increased 18 percent, with earnings per diluted share increasing 21 percent to $3.16. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items for both 2008 and 2007, Baxter's net income of $2.2 billion increased 18 percent from $1.8 billion in
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 4
TH
2007. Adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 21 percent to $3.38, from $2.79 per diluted share in the prior year.
     Baxter's worldwide sales grew 10 percent in 2008 to $12.3 billion, an increase from $11.3 billion reported last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth for full-year 2008 was 6 percent.
     Baxter also generated strong cash flows in 2008, with cash flow from operations improving by more than $200 million to a record level of $2.5 billion, net of a $240 million contribution to the company's pension funds in the fourth quarter. In addition, the company repurchased 32 million shares of common stock, for approximately $2.0 billion, and paid dividends totaling approximately $550 million.
     "We are very pleased with our financial results for 2008, particularly our ongoing ability to generate strong cash flows," said Robert M. Davis, chief financial officer. "In 2008, we created significant value for shareholders due to the strength of our financial position, ongoing financial flexibility, and continued focus on capital allocation and financial management discipline, while investing at record levels in research and development."
     The company increased its investments in research and development by 14 percent (or 20 percent on an adjusted basis) in 2008, to $868 million. Over the course of the year, Baxter received approval for or launched an array of new products, initiated eight major Phase III clinical trials, advanced numerous early-stage internal programs, and established several new partnerships. 2008 highlights from across all three of Baxter's global businesses include the following:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 5
TH
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 6
TH
First Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Outlook
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for the first quarter and full-year 2009. For the full year, Baxter expects sales, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, to grow approximately 7 percent. Adjusting for the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, Baxter expects reported sales growth to be approximately flat compared to 2008, based on current exchange rates. The company also expects earnings per diluted share of $3.70 to $3.78, before any special items, and expects to generate cash flow from operations in excess of $2.6 billion.
     For the first quarter of 2009, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of approximately 7 percent. Adjusting for the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, the company expects reported sales growth to be approximately flat compared to the first quarter of 2008, based on current exchange rates. The company also expects earnings per diluted share of $0.80 to $0.82, before any special items.
     "Our 2009 guidance reflects the ongoing operational strength of our businesses and ability to deliver sustainable growth," concluded Davis. "It is aligned with our long-range strategic and financial objectives. Although we are operating in a volatile and challenging macro-environment, the potential effects of which continue to evolve, we remain focused on delivering growth while making appropriate investments for the future."
     A webcast of Baxter's fourth quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CST on January 22, 2009. The company will be
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 7
TH
hosting its own Investor Conference in Chicago on September 16, 2009. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including investor presentations.
     Baxter International Inc. develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2009. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, income tax expense, net income, diluted EPS, and R&D expenses, excluding specified items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
2008 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2008 included an IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of certain technology related to the BioScience business, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2007 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2007 included IPR&D charges, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (pre-tax income, income tax expense, net income, diluted EPS, and R&D expenses, excluding specified items) adjust for factors that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period. Management believes that non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to the company's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 included charges related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and IPR&D charges related to the company's in-licensing agreement with Innocoll and the acquisition of certain technology applicable to the BioScience business, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2007 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 included a restructuring charge, a charge related to the company's AWP litigation and IPR&D charges. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
Changes in Net Debt
Increase (decrease)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16


