FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20091015071324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On October 15, 2009, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 15, 2009
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., October 15, 2009  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported solid financial results for the third quarter of 2009, and provided its fourth quarter and updated full-year 2009 financial outlook.
     Net income grew 12 percent to $530 million from $472 million reported in the third quarter of 2008. Earnings per diluted share of $0.87 advanced 18 percent from $0.74 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. The third quarter results include after-tax special charges totaling $69 million (or $0.11 per diluted share) primarily for fixed asset write-offs related to the discontinuation of the company's SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development, and planned retirement costs associated with the SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump. The company recorded after-tax special charges in the third quarter of 2008 totaling $91 million (or $0.14 per diluted share).
     On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges in both years, Baxter's net income of $599 million increased 6 percent in the third quarter from
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 2
rd
$563 million reported in the third quarter last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.98 increased 11 percent from $0.88 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period, and compares favorably with the guidance the company previously provided of $0.95 to $0.97 per diluted share. This financial performance was the result of continued margin expansion, expense leverage and benefits derived from the company's ongoing share repurchase program.
     Baxter's global sales of $3.1 billion were flat compared to the third quarter last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's worldwide sales increased 6 percent. Sales within the United States increased 5 percent to $1.3 billion in the third quarter, while international sales declined 4 percent to $1.8 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 7 percent.
     Medication Delivery sales of $1.2 billion increased 1 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 7 percent). Renal sales of $576 million declined 3 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 4 percent). Contributing to these results was growth across multiple product categories, including products used in peritoneal dialysis (PD) treatment, intravenous therapies, injectable drugs and anesthesia products.
     BioScience revenues totaled $1.4 billion in the third quarter, which represents a 2 percent increase over the prior-year period. Excluding foreign currency, BioScience sales advanced 8 percent, reflecting gains across several core franchises. Key drivers of sales performance include continued growth of recombinant therapies, including ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 3
rd
(Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for the treatment of hemophilia, antibody therapies and several specialty plasma therapeutics, as well as biosurgery products.
     "We continue to leverage the benefits derived from our diversified healthcare model to achieve solid financial performance, despite a challenging global macro-economic environment," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Given our strong financial position, geographic presence, and the medically-necessary nature of Baxter's products, Baxter is well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities across a broad array of therapeutic areas."
Nine-Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2009, Baxter's net income totaled $1.6 billion, an increase of 13 percent. Earnings per diluted share of $2.66 advanced 18 percent over $2.26 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items from both years, Baxter's net income of $1.7 billion increased 8 percent over $1.6 billion reported for the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the nine-month period increased 12 percent to $2.77 per diluted share, from $2.47 per diluted share reported in 2008.
     Baxter's global sales in the first nine months of the year totaled $9.1 billion, and declined 1 percent from $9.2 billion reported in the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales growth for the first nine months of 2009 was 7 percent. Sales within the United States totaled
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 4
rd
$3.9 billion, an increase of 6 percent over the same period last year, while international sales declined 6 percent to $5.2 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 8 percent.
Recent Highlights
     Baxter has achieved a number of scientific and commercial milestones over the last several months, including:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 5
rd
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Outlook
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for fourth quarter 2009 and updated its guidance for the full year.
     For the fourth quarter of 2009, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 6 to 8 percent. Based on the company's outlook for foreign exchange rates, the company expects reported sales including the impact of foreign currency to increase 8 to 10 percent over the
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 6
rd
prior-year period. Baxter also expects to achieve earnings per diluted share of $1.02 to $1.04, before any special items, in the fourth quarter.
     For the full year, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, to increase 7 to 8 percent. Based on the company's outlook for foreign exchange rates, Baxter expects reported sales growth to increase approximately 0 to 1 percent. In addition, the company expects earnings per diluted share of $3.79 to $3.81, before any special items, and continues to expect cash flow from operations to total more than $2.6 billion.
     A webcast of Baxter's third quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on October 15, 2009. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2009. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 7
rd
foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; additional legislation or regulation which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; production yields, regulatory clearances and customers' final purchase commitments with respect to the company's pandemic vaccine; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense, net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2009 included an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the company's SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development and a charge primarily related to planned retirement costs associated with the SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2009 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2008 included a charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and an IPR&D charge related to the company's in-licensing agreement with Innocoll, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense, net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 included an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the company's SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development and a charge primarily related to planned retirement costs associated with the SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2009 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 included charges related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and an IPR&D charge related to the company's in-licensing agreement with Innocoll, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15


