FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20090716071305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 16, 2009, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 16, 2009
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., July 16, 2009  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported strong financial results for the second quarter of 2009 and raised its full-year financial outlook.
     Second quarter net income of $587 million increased 8 percent from the $544 million reported in the second quarter of 2008. Earnings per diluted share of $0.96 increased 13 percent from $0.85 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period, and compares favorably to the guidance the company previously provided of $0.93 to $0.95 per diluted share. This performance was the result of strong underlying fundamentals across the portfolio, improved margins, and benefits derived from the company's ongoing share repurchase program.
     Baxter's worldwide sales of $3.1 billion declined 2 percent in the second quarter. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales increased
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 2
nd
8 percent. Sales within the United States increased 7 percent to $1.3 billion, while international sales declined 8 percent to $1.8 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 9 percent.
     In the second quarter, BioScience revenues totaled $1.4 billion, which represents a 2 percent increase over the prior-year period. Excluding foreign currency, BioScience sales advanced 13 percent, reflecting strong double-digit gains across several core franchises, which offset weak sales of the company's FSME vaccine, primarily in Germany. Key drivers of this performance include robust growth of antibody therapies and other specialty plasma therapeutics, strong sales of recombinant therapies, including ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for the treatment of hemophilia, as well as biosurgery products.
     Medication Delivery sales of $1.1 billion declined by 3 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 8 percent). Renal sales of $550 million declined 8 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 4 percent). Contributing to these results was growth across multiple product categories including products used in peritoneal dialysis (PD) treatment, intravenous therapies, anesthesia products and injectable drugs.
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2009, Baxter's net income totaled $1.1 billion, an increase of 13 percent, with earnings per diluted share of $1.79, an increase of 18 percent compared to $1.52 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. On an adjusted basis, excluding a special item from 2008, Baxter's net income increased 8 percent over the $1.0 billion reported in the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the six-month
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 3
nd
period increased 13 percent to $1.79 per diluted share, from $1.59 per diluted share in the prior-year period.
     Baxter's worldwide sales in the first half of the year totaled $5.9 billion, and declined 2 percent, from $6.1 billion in the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales growth for the first six months of 2009 was 7 percent. Sales within the United States totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of 6 percent over the same period last year, while international sales declined 7 percent (and excluding the impact of foreign currency increased 8 percent) to $3.4 billion.
     Cash flow from operations totaled $1.0 billion in the first half of 2009, and the company has returned $1.2 billion to shareholders through both share repurchases and dividends during the first six months of the year. Baxter repurchased 16 million shares of common stock (or 13 million on a net basis) for approximately $866 million (or $743 million on a net basis), and paid dividends totaling $318 million, an increase of 16 percent versus the prior year.
     "We continue to meet or exceed short-term financial goals, as reflected in the strong sales and earnings performance for the first half of 2009, while investing to create long-term value for shareholders," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "These results and outlook validate the strength of the diversified healthcare model and reinforce our confidence in achieving longer-term objectives as we accelerate the pace of R&D investment."
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 4
nd
Advancing Innovation and Expanding Product Offering
     The company continued to advance and expand its product pipeline across its business portfolio in the first half of 2009 with continued investment in research and development, augmented by new business development initiatives. Baxter's investments in research and development through the second quarter totaled $443 million, reflecting an increase of 8 percent over the same period last year. Recent achievements include:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 5
nd
Third Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Outlook
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for third quarter 2009 and updated its guidance for the full year.
     For the third quarter of 2009, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of approximately 7 to 8 percent. Based on current foreign exchange rates, the company expects reported sales including the impact of foreign currency to be approximately flat over the prior-year period. Baxter also expects to achieve earnings per diluted share of $0.95 to $0.97, before any special items, in the third quarter.
     For the full year, Baxter continues to expect sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, to be approximately 7 to 8 percent. Based on current foreign exchange rates, Baxter expects reported sales growth to be approximately flat. In addition, the company now expects earnings per diluted share of $3.76 to $3.80, before any special items, and continues to expect cash flow from operations to total more than $2.6 billion.
     A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 16, 2009. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including the company's Investor Conference to be held in Chicago on September 16, 2009.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 6
nd
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2009. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; production yields, regulatory clearances and customers' final purchase commitments with respect to the company's pandemic vaccine; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on
Form 10-K
and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other (income) expense, net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense (income), net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2008 included a first quarter charge related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13


