FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20100128071858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
On January 28, 2010, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2009. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 28, 2010
Table of Contents

Baxter International Inc. One Baxter Parkway Deerfield, IL 60015
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., January 28, 2010  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported strong performance for the fourth quarter of 2009, and provided its financial outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2010.
     Baxter reported net income of $572 million, an increase of 1 percent from $569 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2008. Earnings per diluted share of $0.94 advanced 3 percent from $0.91 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. Baxter's fourth quarter 2009 financial results included an after-tax special charge of $56 million (or $0.09 per diluted share) for costs and asset impairments associated with the company's optimization of its manufacturing and business operations. The company recorded an after-tax special charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 of $5 million.
     On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in both years, Baxter's net income of $628 million increased 9 percent in the fourth quarter from
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 2
th
$574 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2008. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.03 increased 13 percent from $0.91 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. These results are in line with the guidance the company previously provided of $1.02 to $1.04 per diluted share, and reflect strong growth in sales, continued margin expansion, solid operational performance across the business, and benefits derived from the company's ongoing share repurchase program.
     Baxter's global sales of $3.5 billion advanced 11 percent from the $3.1 billion reported in the same period last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's worldwide sales increased 6 percent. Sales within the United States increased 5 percent to $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter, while international sales grew 15 percent to $2.1 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 7 percent.
     BioScience revenues increased 12 percent to $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter as a result of double-digit growth across multiple product categories. Excluding foreign currency, BioScience sales advanced 7 percent. Key drivers of sales performance include continued growth of recombinant therapies, such as ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for the treatment of hemophilia, antibody therapies and several specialty plasma therapeutics, as well as biosurgery products.
     Medication Delivery sales of $1.3 billion increased 12 percent (and excluding foreign currency increased 7 percent), reflecting solid growth across
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 3
th
its global portfolio that includes intravenous and nutritional therapies, infusion systems, injectable drugs and anesthesia products. Renal sales also grew 12 percent (or 6 percent excluding foreign currency) to $625 million due to the expanded use of peritoneal dialysis in many developed and emerging markets around the world, and the contribution of sales associated with the acquisition of the hemofiltration business, also known as Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT), from Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.
     "In 2009, Baxter achieved record financial results and enhanced shareholder returns," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Each of our businesses and regions contributed to our strong financial performance in the fourth quarter and for the full year, which reinforces the value of the diversified business model, the medically-necessary nature of the portfolio, and our strong global presence."
Full-Year 2009 Results
     For the full year, Baxter's net income totaled $2.2 billion, an increase of 9 percent over the $2.0 billion reported in 2008. Earnings per diluted share of $3.59 advanced 14 percent over the $3.16 per diluted share reported in the prior year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items from both years, Baxter's net income of $2.3 billion increased 8 percent over the $2.2 billion last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for full-year 2009 increased 12 percent to $3.80 per diluted share, from $3.38 per diluted share reported in 2008.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 4
th
     Baxter's global sales totaled $12.6 billion for the full year, growing 2 percent from $12.3 billion reported in the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales growth for full-year 2009 was 7 percent. Sales within the United States totaled $5.3 billion, an increase of 5 percent over the same period last year, while international sales declined 1 percent to $7.2 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's international sales grew 7 percent in 2009.
     Baxter generated strong cash flows in 2009, with cash flow from operations improving by approximately $400 million to a record level of $2.9 billion. This exceeded the company's expectation of generating cash flow from operations of approximately $2.6 billion for the year. In addition, during 2009, Baxter repurchased approximately 23 million shares of common stock for $1.2 billion, and paid dividends totaling $632 million, an increase of 16 percent compared to dividends paid in 2008.
     The company increased its investments in R&D by 6 percent (or 11 percent excluding special items and foreign currency) in 2009, to $917 million. During the year, Baxter advanced 14 Phase III clinical trials and numerous early-stage programs that have the potential to profoundly impact the treatment and delivery of care for chronic diseases like Alzheimer's disease, hemophilia, end-stage renal disease, immune deficiencies, as well as public health threats like pandemic and seasonal influenza.
     "Through continuing innovation, investment and collaboration, we're advancing new therapies, improving the safety and cost-effectiveness of treatments, and expanding access to care," Parkinson said. "The products in
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 5
th
our pipeline are designed to extend Baxter's great legacy of innovation in healthcare, and most importantly, provide life-saving and life-sustaining therapies to patients around the world that need them."
First Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Outlook
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for the full year and first quarter of 2010. For full-year 2010, Baxter expects sales, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, to grow 5 to 7 percent. Including the benefit of foreign exchange, Baxter expects reported sales growth to increase 7 to 9 percent compared to 2009, based on current exchange rates. The company also expects earnings per diluted share of $4.20 to $4.28, before any special items, and expects to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $2.9 billion.
     For the first quarter of 2010, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of approximately 5 to 7 percent. Including the benefit of foreign exchange, the company expects reported sales growth of approximately 10 to 12 percent compared to the first quarter of 2009, based on current exchange rates. The company also expects earnings per diluted share of $0.92 to $0.94, before any special items.
     "Our 2010 guidance reflects balance across the businesses, continued global expansion, and our ability to deliver sustainable growth," said Robert M. Davis, corporate vice president and chief financial officer. "It is aligned with our long-range strategic and financial objectives, as we remain focused on delivering growth while making appropriate investments for the future."
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 6
th
     A webcast of Baxter's fourth quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CST on January 28, 2010. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2010. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including the FDA and foreign counterparts, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; additional legislation or regulation which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; production yields, regulatory clearances and customers' final purchase commitments with respect to the company's pandemic vaccine; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on
Form 10-K
and
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4 QUARTER RESULTS  Page 7
th
other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense, net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2009 included a cost optimization charge, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2009 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2008 included an IPR&D charge, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustment and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
Note: The consolidated statements of income reflect the January 1, 2009 adoption of a new accounting standard that requires a company to present a consolidated net income measure that includes the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests) for all periods presented. Prior to January 1, 2009, the noncontrolling interests' share of net income was included in other expense, net.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 included a cost optimization charge, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the company's SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development and a charge primarily related to planned retirement costs associated with the SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2009 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 included charges related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, an impairment charge associated with the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program, and IPR&D charges, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
2008 description of adjustments and reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
Cash Flows from Operations
(Brackets denote cash outflows)
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
 
     BAXTER  PAGE 15
 


