FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20100722071409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
On July 22, 2010, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2010. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2010
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., July 22, 2010  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced its financial results for the second quarter of 2010, reporting earnings in line with the company's previously issued guidance of $0.90 to $0.93 per diluted share.
     Baxter reported net income of $535 million, which declined 9 percent from $587 million reported in the second quarter of 2009. Earnings per diluted share of $0.90 declined 6 percent from $0.96 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. These results included an after-tax charge of $22 million (or $0.03 per diluted share) for the write-down of certain accounts receivable in anticipation of a settlement with the government of Greece. On an adjusted basis, excluding the special charge, the company reported second quarter net income of $557 million or $0.93 per diluted share.
     Worldwide sales in the second quarter totaled $3.2 billion and increased 2 percent over the same period last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales were comparable to the prior year. Sales within the United States increased 2 percent to $1.4 billion and international sales grew
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 2
2 percent to $1.8 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales declined 2 percent.
     By business, BioScience revenues totaled $1.4 billion and declined 4 percent from the same period last year (or declined 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), primarily due to the increase in Medicaid rebates required by manufacturers of drugs and biologics under recently enacted U.S. healthcare reform legislation, as well as lower revenues derived from antibody therapies, vaccines, and international hemophilia tenders. Partially offsetting this decline was continued growth of ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for the treatment of hemophilia and ARALAST NP [Alpha 1-Proteinase Inhibitor (Human)] for the treatment of hereditary emphysema, as well as strong sales of biosurgery products.
     Medication Delivery sales increased 9 percent (or 6 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency) to $1.2 billion, driven by growth of parenteral nutrition and intravenous therapies, anesthesia products, and sales of the Sigma SPECTRUM infusion pump and certain injectable drugs. Renal sales of $585 million increased 6 percent (or 1 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), as the company continued to post solid gains in peritoneal dialysis patients, particularly in the United States, Latin America and Asia, and benefited from the recently acquired continuous renal replacement therapy business.
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2010, Baxter reported net income of $472 million or $0.78 per diluted share, compared to net income of $1.1 billion or $1.79 per
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 3
diluted share from the same period last year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges of $649 million, Baxter's net income for the six-month period increased 2 percent to $1.1 billion, and earnings per diluted share increased 4 percent to $1.86 per share.
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $6.1 billion for the first half of 2010, including the prior-quarter revenue adjustment of $213 million associated with the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall. On an adjusted basis, Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $6.3 billion, an increase of 7 percent over the prior year (or a 2 percent increase excluding the impact of foreign currency).
     Baxter generated strong cash flow in the first six months of 2010, with cash flows from operations totaling $1.1 billion, after a $300 million contribution to the company's U.S. pension fund in the first quarter. In addition, the company repurchased 23 million shares of common stock for approximately $1.1 billion, and paid dividends totaling $348 million, which represents a 12 percent per share increase versus the prior year period.
     "Despite a number of challenges, we were pleased to deliver financial results in line with our guidance," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We remain committed to accelerating earnings growth in the future by leveraging our diversified healthcare model, broad geographic reach, and strong new product pipeline."
Recent Highlights
     Baxter continues to expand its pipeline through investments in research and development as evidenced by a number of recent achievements:
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 4
     In addition, the company recently announced final details from the FDA order to recall COLLEAGUE infusion pumps in the U.S. market. Baxter will offer replacement Sigma SPECTRUM infusion pumps or refunds to owners of COLLEAGUE pumps and will execute the recall over the next two years to minimize disruption to patient care.
Third Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Outlook
     Baxter also provided financial guidance for the third quarter and confirmed its outlook for the full-year 2010. For the third quarter of 2010, the company expects sales growth of 1 to 3 percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency, and earnings of $0.96 to $0.99 per diluted share, before any special items.
     For full-year 2010, Baxter's outlook includes sales growth of 1 to 3 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the first quarter COLLEAGUE
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 5
adjustment, and earnings of $3.93 to $3.98 per diluted share, before any special items. In addition, the company reiterated its projection to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $2.7 billion.
     A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 22, 2010. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results and outlook for 2010. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as recently adopted U.S. healthcare reform legislation is implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw
 
BAXTER REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 6
materials and component supply; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the commercial and credit environment on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2010 included a charge related to the write-down of accounts receivable in Greece, which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2010 included a charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market and other actions the company intends to undertake outside of the United States, a tax charge related to the write-off of a deferred tax asset as a result of a change in the tax treatment of reimbursements under the Medicare Part D retiree prescription drug subsidy program, and a charge related to the write-down of accounts receivable in Greece. These charges impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16
The company's GAAP net sales results for the six months ended June 30, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


