FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20110421071050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 21, 2011, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
            99.1    Press Release dated April 21, 2011.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 21, 2011
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
DEERFIELD, Ill., April 21, 2011  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced strong financial results for the first quarter of 2011, and raised its outlook for full-year 2011.
     Baxter reported net income in the first quarter of $570 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.98, which exceed the company's previously-issued earnings guidance of $0.92 to $0.94 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in the first quarter of 2010, Baxter's earnings per diluted share increased 5 percent from $0.93 per diluted share in the prior-year period. Baxter's financial results for the first quarter 2010 included after-tax special items totaling $627 million (or $1.04 per diluted share) related to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump and a change in the tax treatment of post-retirement prescription drug benefits.
     Worldwide sales totaled $3.3 billion and increased 12 percent compared to sales of $2.9 billion in the first quarter of 2010, which included a revenue
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1st QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 2
adjustment of $213 million associated with the COLLEAGUE infusion pump. Excluding the COLLEAGUE adjustment, Baxter's worldwide sales increased 5 percent over the prior year.
     Excluding the impact of foreign currency as well as the COLLEAGUE adjustment, worldwide sales in the first quarter advanced 5 percent. Sales within the United States increased 10 percent to $1.4 billion, while international sales of $1.9 billion grew 1 percent.
     By business, BioScience revenues totaled $1.4 billion and rose 3 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Contributing to this performance was robust demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG outside of the United States), certain specialty plasma-based therapeutics, and biosurgery products.
     Medical Products sales advanced 20 percent to $1.9 billion from $1.6 billion recorded in the prior year that included the COLLEAGUE adjustment referenced earlier. Excluding the adjustment and the impact of foreign currency, Medical Products sales increased 5 percent. This performance is primarily attributable to double-digit growth in the IV Therapies and Global Injectables product categories, driven by strong demand for intravenous (IV) and nutritional therapies, and a broad range of generic and pre-mixed injectable drugs. Medical Products also now includes Renal products.
     "We continue to implement measures to improve our commercial, operational, and scientific effectiveness in response to an evolving and challenging environment," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Baxter's strong financial position provides us the flexibility to
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1st QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 3
invest in and pursue opportunities that expand our diverse product portfolio with innovative products that save and sustain patient lives and position our company for enhanced growth."
Recent Highlights
     Baxter continues to expand its pipeline through investments in research and development as evidenced by a number of recent achievements:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1st QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 4
Outlook for Second Quarter and Full-Year 2011
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for the second quarter of 2011 and updated its guidance for the full year.
     For full-year 2011, Baxter now expects to achieve sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 3 to 4 percent, and earnings per diluted share, before special items, of $4.20 to $4.28 per diluted share. In addition, the company continues to expect cash flows from operations of approximately $2.8 billion. This guidance incorporates the impact of the previously-announced divestiture of the U.S. generic injectables business, now projected to close during the second quarter.
     Baxter's previous guidance for full-year 2011 was sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 2 to 3 percent, earnings per diluted share of $4.15 to $4.25, before any special items, and cash flows from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
     For the second quarter of 2011, the company expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 4 to 5 percent, and earnings per diluted share of $1.01 to $1.03, before any special items.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1st QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 5
     A webcast of Baxter's first quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on April 21, 2011. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including the company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 3, 2011.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, outlook for 2011 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties
 
BAXTER REPORTS 1st QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 6
preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the current economic conditions on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2010 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
The company's GAAP net sales results for the period ended March 31, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


