FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20110509172220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On May 3, 2011, at the annual meeting of shareholders, shareholders of Baxter International Inc. (the "Company") approved the Baxter International Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). All employees of the Company and its designated subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the ESPP. Under the ESPP, participating employees are permitted to elect to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a price equal to 85 percent of the closing price of a share of Company common stock on the purchase date (the last day of each month), up to maximum limitations set forth in the ESPP.
     This description of the ESPP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual ESPP, which was filed as Appendix A to the Company's Definitive 2011 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement on Form 14A (File No. 1-4448) filed on March 18, 2011 (the "Proxy Statement") and is hereby incorporated by reference.
     On May 3, 2011, at the annual meeting of shareholders, shareholders of the Company also approved the Baxter International Inc. 2011 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). All employees, non-employee directors and consultants, independent contractors and agents of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to receive awards under the Plan. Under the Plan, the Committee may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, full value awards (including restricted shares, restricted share units, deferred shares, deferred share units, dividend equivalent units, performance share and performance share units) and cash incentive awards.
     This description of the Plan is qualified in its entirely by reference to the actual Plan, which was filed as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement and is hereby incorporated by reference.
     On May 3, 2011, Baxter International Inc. held its annual meeting of shareholders. The following is a summary of the matters voted on at the meeting.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 9, 2011


