FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20111020071825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 20, 2011, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 20, 2011
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., October 20, 2011  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported third quarter net income of $576 million, an increase of 10 percent from $525 million reported in the third quarter of 2010. Earnings per diluted share of $1.01 advanced 13 percent from $0.89 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. Baxter's third quarter financial results included an after-tax special charge of $48 million (or $0.08 per diluted share) for the resolution of long-standing litigation pertaining to average wholesale prices (AWP) and certain historical rebate and discount adjustments. Baxter's third quarter 2010 financial results included an after-tax special item of $70 million (or $0.12 per diluted share) related to the impairment of assets associated with the divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business.
On an adjusted basis, excluding special items from both periods, Baxter's third quarter net income of $624 million rose 5 percent from $595 million reported in 2010. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.09 increased 8 percent from
 
 
$1.01 per diluted share reported last year and were in-line with the guidance the company previously provided of $1.07 to $1.09 per diluted share.
Worldwide sales totaled $3.48 billion compared to sales of $3.22 billion in the third quarter of 2010, representing an increase of 8 percent (or 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Adjusting for the divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business which was completed in the second quarter 2011, worldwide revenues advanced 10 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Sales within the United States of $1.40 billion grew 1 percent (or 5 percent adjusting for the divestiture). International sales of $2.08 billion advanced 13 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), driven by solid performance across the portfolio, particularly in emerging markets.
BioScience revenues totaled $1.52 billion and rose 9 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), reflecting robust demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG outside of the United States), certain plasma-based therapeutics, and vaccines. Medical Products sales of $1.95 billion increased 7 percent (or 1 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Adjusting for the divestiture, Medical Products sales increased 10 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), reflecting strong growth of intravenous therapies and injectable drugs, as well as peritoneal dialysis therapy and anesthesia products in international markets.
 
 
Nine-Month Results
For the first nine months of 2011, Baxter reported net income of $1.76 billion or $3.06 per diluted share, compared to net income of $997 million or $1.67 per diluted share in the same period last year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items, Baxter's net income for the nine-month period of $1.81 billion increased 5 percent from the $1.72 billion reported in the prior-year period, and earnings of $3.14 per diluted share increased 9 percent from $2.87 per diluted share reported in the same period last year.
Baxter's worldwide revenues totaled $10.30 billion and increased 10 percent (or 7 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency) compared to sales of $9.35 billion in the same period of 2010. Excluding the prior-year COLLEAGUE revenue adjustment and the divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, Baxter's worldwide sales increased 9 percent over the prior-year period (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency).
Through the first nine months of the year, Baxter generated strong cash flows from operations of $1.93 billion and has returned significant value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Through the third quarter 2011, Baxter has returned $1.95 billion to shareholders through dividends totaling $534 million and share repurchases of approximately $1.41 billion (or 26 million shares), a 9 percent increase versus the prior-year period.
"The evolving global macro-environment will exert ongoing pressures on our business, creating challenges that we will manage through disciplined execution of our strategies," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to benefit from the diversified and medically-
 
 
necessary nature of our portfolio, broad geographic reach and strong financial position, and remain committed to innovation through clinical differentiation, enhanced operational and cost effectiveness, improved earnings growth, and delivering sustained value for our shareholders."
Recent Highlights
Baxter continued its commitment to innovation with further investments in research and development and advancements in the new product pipeline, augmented by business development initiatives. The company's research and development expenditures accelerated 15 percent in the third quarter reflecting progress of investigational therapies in late-stage clinical development and success in obtaining approvals and launching innovative products to the global marketplace. Recent achievements include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011
Baxter also confirmed previously-issued guidance and expects earnings, before special items, of $4.29 to $4.32 per diluted share for full-year 2011. Baxter continues to expect sales growth of 3 to 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency and the COLLEAGUE revenue adjustment in 2010 (or 5 to 6 percent including the impact of foreign currency). In addition, the company expects to generate cash flows from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
For the fourth quarter of 2011, the company expects earnings per diluted share of $1.15 to $1.18, before any special items, and sales growth of 2 to 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency (or 1 to 2 percent including the impact of foreign currency).
 
 
A webcast of Baxter's third quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on October 20, 2011. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, outlook for 2011 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the current economic conditions on Baxter
 
 
and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 17
 
The company's GAAP net sales results for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


