FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20110127072054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2011, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2010. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 27, 2011
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., January 27, 2011  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2010, and provided its financial outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2011.
     Baxter reported net income in the fourth quarter of $423 million, which declined 26 percent from $572 million reported in the prior-year period. Earnings per diluted share of $0.72 compares to $0.94 per diluted share reported in the fourth quarter of 2009. These results included special after-tax charges totaling $227 million (or $0.39 per diluted share) for costs and asset impairments primarily associated with the company's business optimization initiatives, increased litigation reserves, as well as in-process research and development charges associated with recent transactions. The company also recorded an after-tax special charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 of $56 million (or $0.09 per diluted share).
     On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in both years, Baxter's net income of $650 million increased 4 percent in the fourth quarter from $628 million
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 2
in the prior-year period. Adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 8 percent to $1.11 per diluted share from $1.03 reported in the fourth quarter of 2009. These results were in line with the company's previously issued earnings guidance of $1.09 to $1.11 per diluted share.
     Worldwide sales in the fourth quarter totaled $3.5 billion and increased 1 percent over the same period last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales advanced 3 percent. Sales within the United States increased by more than 1 percent to $1.4 billion and international sales of $2.1 billion were comparable to the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 3 percent.
     By business, BioScience revenues exceeded $1.5 billion and increased 1 percent from the comparable prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, BioScience sales increased 4 percent. Contributing to this performance was strong demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG outside of the United States), several specialty plasma-based therapeutics, and biosurgery products, resulting in double-digit sales growth across these product categories. This strength was partially offset by the expected decline in recombinant protein and vaccine revenues.
     Medication Delivery sales also increased 1 percent to $1.3 billion (or 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), driven primarily by growth of intravenous therapies (including the company's parenteral nutrition products), injectable drugs and anesthesia products. Renal sales of $626 million were comparable to the prior-year period (and increased 1 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), as the company continued to post solid gains in
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 3
peritoneal dialysis patients, particularly in the United States, Latin America and Asia.
Full-Year 2010 Results
     For the full year, Baxter reported net income of $1.4 billion or $2.39 per diluted share, compared to net income of $2.2 billion or $3.59 per diluted share last year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges in both years, Baxter's net income in 2010 was $2.4 billion which represents an increase of 2 percent, over the prior-year period, while earnings per diluted share of $3.98 increased 5 percent from $3.80 reported in 2009.
     Baxter's worldwide sales increased 2 percent and totaled $12.8 billion for full-year 2010, including a first-quarter revenue adjustment of $213 million associated with the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall. On an adjusted basis, excluding the COLLEAGUE charge, Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $13.1 billion in 2010, an increase of 4 percent over the prior year revenues of $12.6 billion (and increased 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Sales within the United States (excluding the COLLEAGUE adjustment) increased 3 percent to $5.5 billion in 2010, and international sales grew 5 percent to $7.6 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales rose 3 percent.
     "2010 was an unusually challenging year for our company; however, we continue to benefit from the diversified and medically-necessary nature of our portfolio, broad geographic reach and strong financial position," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We also executed on our key commercial, operational and organizational strategies intended to enhance
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 4
our effectiveness, competitive position, and growth profile with emphasis on creating sustained value for our shareholders over the long-term."
     In 2010, Baxter delivered record cash flow and returned significant value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Cash flow from operations totaled $3.0 billion (including pension contributions of $350 million to the company's U.S. pension fund during the year). Excluding pension contributions from both years, cash flow from operations increased 11 percent versus the prior-year period. In addition, Baxter returned approximately $2.1 billion to shareholders through dividends totaling $688 million and share repurchases of approximately $1.5 billion (or 30 million shares).
Fourth Quarter Highlights
     Baxter continued to enhance its portfolio and new product pipeline in 2010 with investments in research and development that reflected funding of all key R&D initiatives, including 14 programs that progressed in Phase III clinical development throughout the year. Recent commercial and pipeline achievements include the following:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 5
Outlook for First Quarter and Full-Year 2011
     Baxter also announced today its outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2011. For full-year 2011, Baxter expects sales growth of 2 to 3 percent, excluding
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 6
the impact of foreign exchange. This guidance reflects the previously announced divestiture of the generic injectables business, with 2010 annual sales of approximately $200 million, that is anticipated to close during the first quarter 2011. Excluding the proposed divestiture and the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth is expected to be in the 4 to 5 percent range. Also, for the full-year, Baxter expects earnings of $4.15 to $4.25 per diluted share, before any special items, and cash flows from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
     For the first quarter of 2011, the company expects sales growth of 2 to 3 percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency, and earnings of $0.92 to $0.94 per diluted share, before any special items.
     A webcast of Baxter's fourth quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CST on January 27, 2011. Please visit www.baxter.com for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
     
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, outlook for 2011 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as
 
BAXTER REPORTS 4th QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 7
ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the current economic conditions on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16
 
BAXTER  PAGE 17
The company's GAAP net sales results for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


