FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20110721070407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 21, 2011, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2011. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 21, 2011
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Media Contact:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371 Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
Investor Contacts:
     DEERFIELD, Ill., July 21, 2011  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced strong financial results for the second quarter of 2011, and raised its financial outlook for full-year 2011.
     Baxter reported net income of $615 million in the second quarter, an increase of 15 percent compared to $535 million reported in the same period last year. Earnings per diluted share of $1.07 advanced 19 percent from $0.90 per diluted share in the prior-year period, and exceeded the company's previously issued earnings guidance of $1.01 to $1.03 per diluted share. This performance reflects double-digit sales growth, operational leverage, favorable foreign exchange and the benefit from the company's ongoing share repurchase program.
     On an adjusted basis, excluding a special item in the second quarter of 2010, Baxter's net income and earnings per diluted share increased 10 percent
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2nd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 2
and 15 percent, respectively, from $557 million and $0.93 per diluted share recorded in the prior-year period.
     Worldwide sales totaled $3.5 billion and increased 11 percent compared to sales of $3.2 billion in the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales increased 6 percent. Sales within the United States grew 5 percent to $1.4 billion, while international sales of $2.1 billion accelerated 15 percent (or 7 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency).
     BioScience revenues totaled $1.6 billion, representing a 14 percent increase from $1.4 billion in the comparable prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, BioScience sales advanced 10 percent boosted by strong demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG outside of the United States), certain specialty plasma-based therapeutics, and vaccines.
     Medical Products sales increased 8 percent to $2.0 billion from $1.8 billion reported last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Medical Products sales increased 3 percent. As previously disclosed, the company completed the divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business to Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC during the quarter. Excluding generic injectables sales from both years, Medical Products revenues increased 10 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), reflecting strong growth of anesthesia products, nutritional therapies, infusion systems and other injectable drugs.
     "We remain encouraged with the continued improvement in our financial performance and progress with the initiatives we have implemented to enhance our commercial, operational, and scientific effectiveness," said Robert L.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2nd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 3
Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "These initiatives, combined with Baxter's global presence, diversified portfolio, and focus on innovation, provide unique opportunities for future growth in an evolving and challenging macro-environment."
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2011, Baxter reported net income of $1.2 billion or $2.05 per diluted share, compared to net income of $472 million or $0.78 per diluted share in the same period last year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in the first half of 2010, Baxter's net income for the six-month period increased 6 percent from $1.1 billion in the prior year, and earnings per diluted share increased 10 percent from $1.86 per diluted share reported in the first half of last year.
     Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $6.8 billion and increased 11 percent (or 9 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency) compared to sales of $6.1 billion in the same period of 2010. Sales in 2010 included a revenue adjustment associated with the COLLEAGUE infusion pump of $213 million. Excluding this revenue adjustment, Baxter's worldwide sales increased 8 percent over the prior six-month period (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency).
     During the first six months of this year, Baxter returned approximately $1.5 billion to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases. The company paid dividends totaling $358 million and repurchased 21 million shares of Baxter common stock for $1.1 billion.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2nd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 4
Recent Highlights
     Baxter continued to enhance its portfolio and new product pipeline through investments in research and development, augmented by new business development initiatives. Recent achievements include the following:
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2nd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 5
Outlook for Third Quarter and Full-Year 2011
     Baxter also announced today its guidance for the third quarter of 2011 and raised its financial outlook for the full year.
     For full-year 2011, Baxter now expects earnings, before special items, of $4.27 to $4.32 per diluted share versus previous guidance of $4.20 to $4.28 per diluted share. Baxter continues to expect to achieve sales growth of 3 to 4 percent, excluding special items and the impact of foreign currency (or 5 to 6 percent including the benefit of foreign currency). In addition, the company expects to generate cash flows from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
     For the third quarter of 2011, the company expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 3 to 4 percent (or 6 to 7 percent including the benefit of foreign currency) and earnings per diluted share of $1.07 to $1.09, before any special items.
     A webcast of Baxter's second quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on July 21, 2011. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
     Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia,
 
BAXTER REPORTS 2nd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page 6
immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, outlook for 2011 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the current economic conditions on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2010 included a specified item which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
The company's GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2010 included specified items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16
The company's GAAP net sales results for the six months ended June 30, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


