FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20120126070925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2012, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2011. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted sales, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., January 26, 2012  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today announced its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011, and provided its financial outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2012.
Baxter reported net income in the fourth quarter of $463 million, which advanced 9 percent from $423 million reported in the prior-year period. Earnings per diluted share of $0.82 compares to $0.72 per diluted share reported in the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting an increase of 14 percent. The fourth quarter 2011 results included special after-tax charges of approximately $200 million (or $0.35 per diluted share) principally related to costs resulting from a business optimization initiative and certain asset impairments. After-tax special charges in the fourth quarter of 2010 totaled $227 million (or $0.39 per diluted share).
On an adjusted basis, excluding special items in both periods, Baxter's net income of $662 million increased 2 percent in the fourth quarter from $650 million in the prior-year period. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.17 advanced
 
 
5 percent from $1.11 per diluted share reported in the fourth quarter of 2010. These results were in line with the company's previously issued earnings guidance of $1.15 to $1.18 per diluted share.
Worldwide revenues in the fourth quarter totaled $3.59 billion compared to $3.50 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010, representing an increase of 3 percent. Adjusting for the divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business which was completed in the second quarter of 2011, worldwide revenues advanced 4 percent. Sales within the United States of $1.47 billion grew 2 percent (or 6 percent adjusting for the divestiture) and international sales grew 3 percent to $2.13 billion.
BioScience revenues totaled $1.58 billion and rose 3 percent from the comparable prior-year period. Driving this performance was robust demand for products used for the treatment of hemophilia and immune disorders, including ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] and GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG outside of the United States), as well as for other specialty plasma-based therapeutics and select biosurgery products.
Medical Products sales exceeded $2.01 billion and increased 3 percent over the prior-year period. Adjusting for the U.S. multi-source generic injectables divestiture, Medical Products sales advanced 6 percent driven primarily by gains in peritoneal dialysis patients, as well as growth in intravenous therapies (including the company's parenteral nutrition products), certain injectable drugs and critical care products.
 
 
Full-Year 2011 Results
For the full year 2011, Baxter reported net income of $2.22 billion or $3.88 per diluted share, compared to net income of $1.42 billion or $2.39 per diluted share in 2010. On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges in both years, Baxter's net income was $2.47 billion in 2011, which represents an increase of 4 percent over the prior year, and earnings per diluted share of $4.31 rose 8 percent from earnings per diluted share of $3.98 reported in 2010.
Baxter's worldwide sales totaled $13.89 billion for full-year 2011 and increased 8 percent (or 6 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Excluding the 2010 COLLEAGUE revenue adjustment and the 2011 divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, Baxter's worldwide sales also rose 8 percent over the prior year (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency).
Baxter generated strong cash flows from operations in 2011 and returned significant value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Cash flows from operations exceeded $2.81 billion (including a $150 million contribution to the company's U.S. pension plan during the year). In addition, Baxter returned approximately $2.29 billion to shareholders during the year, a 7 percent increase from 2010, through dividends totaling $709 million and share repurchases of approximately $1.58 billion (or approximately 30 million shares). Over the last five years, the company has returned approximately $11.4 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
"2011 was a very successful year for Baxter as we continue to fulfill our mission of providing innovative life-saving and life-sustaining therapies that
 
 
advance patient care worldwide," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "I'm pleased that despite a challenging, global macro-economic environment, our company delivered strong financial and operational performance, while accelerating investments in innovation, advancing our new product pipeline and pursuing other initiatives to enhance long-term growth, while returning significant value to our shareholders."
Baxter continued its commitment to innovation and enhanced its new product pipeline during 2011 with record-level investments in research and development of $946 million, an increase of 7 percent over the prior-year period (after excluding special items). Also over the last several months, the company has accelerated the pace of business development with a number of business partnerships and acquisitions that complement Baxter's current businesses, broaden its global product portfolio and leverage key scientific, manufacturing and commercial capabilities. Recent achievements include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for First Quarter, Full-Year 2012
Baxter also announced today its outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2012. For full-year 2012, Baxter expects sales growth of 4 to 5 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Including the impact of foreign exchange, sales growth is expected to be approximately 2 percent. Also, for the full year, Baxter expects earnings of $4.47 to $4.57 per diluted share, before any special items, and cash flows from operations to exceed $3.0 billion.
For the first quarter of 2012, the company expects sales growth of approximately 2 percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency. Including the impact of foreign exchange, sales are expected to be comparable to the level achieved in the first quarter of 2011. In addition, Baxter expects earnings of $0.98 to $1.00 per diluted share, before any special items.
"Our 2012 guidance reflects the ongoing strength of our businesses and ability to deliver sustainable growth despite a number of non-operational headwinds," said Robert J. Hombach, chief financial officer. "Although we are
 
 
operating in a volatile and challenging macro-environment, we remain focused on delivering growth while making appropriate investments for the future."
A webcast of Baxter's fourth quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CST on January 26, 2012. Please visit www.baxter.com for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, business development activities, outlook for 2012 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall, that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sales or result in sanctions; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; Sigma's ability to build production capacity to meet customer demand; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw
 
 
materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; any impact of the current economic conditions on Baxter and its customers; foreign currency fluctuations and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included special items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
The company's GAAP results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included special items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE 13
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 14
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 18
 
The company's GAAP net sales results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 included a $213 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, which impacted GAAP net sales as follows:
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.


