FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20120419070312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 19, 2012, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2012. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1    Press Release dated April 19, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 19, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:
Deborah Spak, (847) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (847) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (847) 948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., April 19, 2012  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today posted solid first quarter financial results which exceeded the company's previously issued revenue and earnings per share (EPS) guidance.
For the first quarter, Baxter reported net income of $588 million, an increase of 3 percent compared to $570 million reported in the same period last year. Earnings per diluted share of $1.04 advanced 6 percent from $0.98 per diluted share in the prior-year period. These results included a net after-tax benefit from special items totaling $19 million of income (or $0.03 per diluted share), for costs and adjustments related to recent business development transactions. Specifically, the company recorded special after-tax charges totaling $34 million (or $0.06 per diluted share) related principally to an upfront cash payment to Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Momenta) for the development and commercialization of biosimilar compounds, which were more than offset by a gain of $53 million (or $0.09 per diluted share) resulting from an adjustment to estimated milestone payments associated with the 2011 Prism Pharmaceuticals, Inc. acquisition.
 
 
On an adjusted basis, excluding special items, Baxter's net income totaled $569 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, which exceeded the company's previously issued earnings guidance of $0.98 to $1.00 per diluted share.
Worldwide sales of $3.4 billion also exceeded the company's guidance and increased 3 percent compared to $3.3 billion reported in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, worldwide sales in the first quarter advanced 4 percent. Sales within the United States increased 3 percent, totaling $1.5 billion, while international sales exceeded $1.9 billion and also increased 3 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency).
By business, BioScience revenues of $1.5 billion rose 4 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency), driven primarily by strong demand in the United States for ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for the treatment of hemophilia, and GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)], used primarily in treating immune deficiencies. Also contributing to this performance was the benefit of the Synovis Life Technologies, Inc. (Synovis) acquisition, which was completed during the quarter, and solid growth in select specialty plasma-based therapies and vaccines.
Medical Products sales of more than $1.9 billion increased 3 percent (with foreign currency having no impact on sales growth). This performance was driven primarily by strong growth in anesthesia products and certain injectable and nutritional therapies.
 
 
Baxter continued to expand its portfolio and pipeline through investments in research and development and pursuit of business development opportunities to augment future growth. Recent highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Baxter has entered 2012 with strong momentum and confidence in our continued success," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Our sustained focus on innovation and growth opportunities enables us to respond effectively to an evolving macroeconomic environment, while strengthening our market leadership and expanding access to care, achieving the highest standards of quality and safety, and creating enhanced value for Baxter, our shareholders, and patients worldwide."
Second Quarter and Full-Year 2012 Outlook
Baxter also announced today its guidance for the second quarter of 2012 and updated its guidance for the full year.
For full-year 2012, Baxter continues to expect sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, of 4 to 5 percent (or 2 to 3 percent including the impact of foreign exchange). In addition, the company now expects earnings of $4.49 to $4.57 per diluted share, before any special items, and cash flows from operations to exceed $3.0 billion.
For the second quarter of 2012, Baxter expects sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 3 to 4 percent (or 0 to 1 percent including the impact of foreign exchange), and earnings per diluted share of $1.10 to $1.12, before any special items.
 
 
A webcast of Baxter's first quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on April 19, 2012. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts, including the company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 8, 2012.
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, business development activities, outlook for 2012 and R&D pipeline. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, including with respect to the company's implementation of the COLLEAGUE recall; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, taxation, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; the impact of global economic conditions on Baxter and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain
 
 
countries in which the company operates; foreign currency fluctuations; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
BAXTER  PAGE 7
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 8
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2012 included special items which impacted the GAAP results as follows:
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 10
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE 12
 
 
 
 


