FILE:BAX/BAX-8K-20121018070432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 18, 2012, Baxter International Inc. issued an earnings press release for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012. The press release, including attachments, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per diluted share and adjusted pre-tax income, each excluding special items. Special items are excluded because they are unusual or nonrecurring and accordingly can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company's reported operations for a period.
Management believes that non-GAAP earnings measures, when used in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Accordingly, management uses these non-GAAP measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in some cases for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP measures used by the company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1    Press Release dated October 18, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 18, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:
Deborah Spak, (224) 948-2349
Investor Contacts:
Mary Kay Ladone, (224) 948-3371
Clare Trachtman, (224) 948-3085
DEERFIELD, Ill., October 18, 2012  Baxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) today reported third quarter net income of $583 million, or $1.06 per diluted share. This compares to net income in the same period last year of $576 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, reflecting an increase of 5 percent on a per share basis. Baxter's third quarter 2012 financial results included an after-tax research and development charge of $45 million (or $0.08 per diluted share) associated with the company's recently announced European licensing agreement with Onconova Therapeutics, Inc. Financial results from the third quarter 2011 included an after-tax charge of $48 million (or $0.08 per diluted share).
On an adjusted basis, excluding special items from both periods, Baxter's third quarter net income of $628 million increased 1 percent from $624 million reported in 2011. Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.14 rose 5 percent from $1.09 per diluted share last year and was in line with the guidance the company previously provided of $1.12 to $1.14 per diluted share.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3rd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page  2
 
Worldwide sales totaled $3.5 billion, which were comparable to revenues generated in the third quarter last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Baxter's sales advanced 5 percent. Sales within the United States of $1.5 billion accelerated 8 percent, while international sales of $2.0 billion declined 5 percent. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 2 percent as strength across many countries in Latin America and Asia Pacific offset continued softness in mature European markets.
BioScience revenues of $1.5 billion were similar to sales in the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, BioScience revenues rose 5 percent, driven by double-digit growth in the U.S. across all key product categories. This was primarily the result of robust growth in demand for ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method], GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)], and other plasma-based therapeutics including FEIBA, an inhibitor bypass therapy, and products to treat hereditary emphysema. In addition, the company benefited from the recent acquisition of Synovis Life Technologies, generating incremental sales in the quarter of approximately $20 million. The strong U.S. performance was partially offset by the impact of tenders in markets outside the U.S., largely related to the timing of purchases for certain plasma-based therapeutics.
Medical Products sales of $2.0 billion were also in line with the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Medical Products revenues increased 4 percent resulting from strong growth of injectable drugs, anesthesia products and nutritional therapies, and the benefit from the company's acquisition of Baxa Corporation, with incremental sales totaling more than $40 million.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3rd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page  3
 
"The solid underlying fundamentals of our businesses continue to be supported by the medically-necessary nature of our portfolio and therapies, growing global demand, and our broad global presence," said Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition, our company's strong financial position provides continued flexibility to invest in innovation, advance our new product pipeline, and pursue new business development opportunities to enhance future growth."
Nine-Month Results
For the first nine months of 2012, Baxter's net income increased 4 percent to $1.83 billion from $1.76 billion last year, while earnings per diluted share advanced 8 percent to $3.29 per diluted share from $3.06 per diluted share reported in the prior-year period. On an adjusted basis, excluding special items, Baxter reported net income for the nine-month period of $1.82 billion, comparable to the prior-year period. On a per share basis, adjusted earnings per diluted share of $3.27 increased 4 percent from $3.14 last year.
Baxter's worldwide revenues totaled $10.4 billion and increased 1 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency) compared to sales of $10.3 billion in the same period of 2011. The company's sales within the United States grew 6 percent in the year-to-date period, while international sales declined 2 percent during the period (and increased 3 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). On a year-to-date basis, sales within the company's BioScience business totaled $4.6 billion, and increased 2 percent (or 5 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency). Medical Products sales grew 1 percent (or 4 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency) to $5.9 billion.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3rd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page  4
 
Recent Highlights
Baxter continues to focus on enhancing growth by optimizing its core business portfolio, advancing the company's new product pipeline, pursuing and accelerating the pace of business development initiatives, and capitalizing on the opportunity to develop new business models, which include public and private partnerships aimed at improving the quality of and access to care in both developed and emerging markets. Recent achievements reflect these priorities and include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3rd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page  5
 
 
 
Outlook for Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2012
For the fourth quarter of 2012, the company expects earnings of $1.24 to $1.27 per diluted share, before any special items, and sales growth of 5 to 6 percent excluding the impact of foreign currency (or 3 to 4 percent including the impact of foreign currency).
Baxter has also tightened the range of its previously-issued guidance and now expects earnings, before special items, of $4.51 to $4.54 per diluted share for full-year 2012. For full-year 2012, Baxter continues to expect sales growth, excluding the impact of foreign currency, of 4 to 5 percent (or approximately 2 percent including the impact of foreign currency). In addition, the company expects cash flows from operations to exceed $3.0 billion.
A webcast of Baxter's third quarter conference call for investors can be accessed live from a link on the company's website at www.baxter.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. CDT on October 18, 2012. Please visit Baxter's website for more information regarding this and future investor events and webcasts.
 
BAXTER REPORTS 3rd QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  Page  6
 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.
This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's financial results, business development activities and other collaborations, R&D pipeline and outlook for 2012. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE, and other technologies; future actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities; product quality or patient safety concerns leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, litigation, or declining sales; future actions of governmental authorities and other third parties as U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other austerity measures are implemented globally; additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures, which may affect pricing, taxation, reimbursement and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company's business; product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance; the company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its business development activities; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company's sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies; the ability to enforce company patents; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company's manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; the impact of global economic conditions on Baxter and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain countries in which the company operates; foreign currency fluctuations; and other risks identified in the company's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, all of which are available on the company's website. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Financial schedules are attached to this release and available on the company's website.
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  7
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  8
 
The company's GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 included special items which impacted the GAAP measures as follows:
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE  9
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  10
 
The company's GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 included special items which impacted the GAAP measures as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
For more information on the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, please see the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
BAXTER  PAGE  11
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  12
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  13
 
 
 
 
BAXTER  PAGE  14
 
 
 
 


