Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in other sections of this Form 10 K that include forward looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. 23 Risks Related to Business Operations Risks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution Equipment Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by unionized employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of those facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. Operation of our power plants below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages may require us to incur significant replacement power costs. Also, when planned outages last longer than anticipated, capacity factors decrease and we face lower margins due to higher replacement energy costs and or lower energy sales. Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.3 billion for FES and $800 million for each of the Ohio Companies. We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. Changes in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins While much of our generation currently serves customers under retail rates set by regulatory bodies, we also purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins in both competitive and non competitive markets. Changes in the market prices of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply PLR and default service obligations in Ohio and Pennsylvania. Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers; illiquidity in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; changes in power production capacity; outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. 24 We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge Against We purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market based tariffs authorized by the FERC, and also enter into short term agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. The Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses that may Negatively Impact our Financial Results We use a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such Policies We attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy and fuel and debt positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge against all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. For instance, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management positions. Also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. We also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract which could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower priced market or make purchases in a higher priced market than existed at the time of executing the contract. Although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then current market prices. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. 25 Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning FirstEnergy is subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from certain unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. FirstEnergys nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under these policies, up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. We have also obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $81 million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying losses. The Price Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to $10.8 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to operate in the United States) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to $300.0 million; and (ii) $10.5 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $100.6 million (but not more than $15.0 million per year) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based on our present nuclear ownership, the maximum potential assessment under these provisions would be $402.4 million per incident but not more than $60.0 million in any one year. Capital Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Decommissioning Trust Fund, Pension Fund Assets and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require Significant Additional Funding The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission our nuclear plants, to pay pensions to our retired employees and to pay other obligations. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. For example, certain investments within our nuclear decommissioning, pension and other postretirement benefit trusts hold underlying credit market securities, including subprime mortgage related assets. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime mortgage related assets, the fair value of these subprime related investments has declined. We expect the market to continue to evolve, and that the fair value of our subprime related investments may frequently change. A decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension funds and other trust investments are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of our nuclear plants or to fund pension and other obligations, we may be required to provide other means of funding those obligations. If we are unable to successfully manage those trust funds our results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and or Penalties Related to Mandatory NERC/FERC Reliability Standards As a result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and approved by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. 26 We Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets that we do not Own or Control to Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted Including Our Own Transmission, or not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our Ability to Sell and Deliver Power may be Hindered We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system operators, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. Demand for electricity within our service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures. The FERC requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open access, non discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. Disruptions in Our Fuel Supplies Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Generation Facilities and Impact Financial Results We purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Operation of many of our coal fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. Although we have long term contracts in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. If prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Seasonal Temperature Variations, as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or Above our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect our Energy Margins Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In our service areas, demand for power generally peaks during the summer months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snow storms or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. Customer demand that we satisfy pursuant to our default service tariffs could increase as a result of severe weather conditions, economic development or other circumstances over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. A significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required under the terms of the default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at capped rates, which we expect to remain significantly below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 27 We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to the Economic Cycles of the Electric Utility Industry Our business follows the economic cycles of our customers. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affects the markets in which we operate and negatively influences our energy operations. Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns will reduce overall electricity sales and reduce our cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production, resulting in less consumption of electricity. Economic conditions also impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts receivable, further increasing our costs. The Goodwill of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries May Become Impaired, Which Would Result in Write Offs of the Impaired Amounts There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years would depend on many uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable utility acquisitions and other factors. We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements We face the difficult challenge of finding ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments. Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and Liquidity We continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures, including health care and pension costs. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to continue to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. Our Business is Subject to the Risk that Sensitive Customer Data May be Compromised, Which Could Result in an Adverse Impact to Our Reputation and or Results of Operations Our business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and credit information, in the ordinary course of business. A security breach may occur, despite security measures taken by us and required of vendors. If a significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become subject to legal claims, any of which may have a negative impact on our business and or results of operations. Acts of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business The possibility that our infrastructure, or that of an interconnected company, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism could affect our operations. Our generation plants, transmission and distribution facilities, or those of interconnected companies, may be targets of terrorist activities that could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed within Forecasted Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, as well as other initiatives. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and or obtain the required construction related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors inability to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects. We May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for our Business in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Those Acquisitions Asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. Risks Associated With Regulation Complex and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry Including a Reversal, Discontinuance or Delay of the Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of Operations As a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred and are continuing to take place throughout the United States, including Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business. Criticism of restructured electricity markets in public forums escalated during 2007 as retail rate freezes expired in a number of states and fuel prices increased, thereby driving up retail prices for electricity. Consumers in other states are experiencing significant rate increases. In Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey there is growing pressure for state regulatory and political processes to take steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. The political pressure for states to retreat from allowing competitively priced supplies to serve retail load and to return to cost based regulation of generation resources or take other actions directed at generators of electricity creates heightened risk of limitations on the retail price of electricity or other restrictions on the full recovery of market based generation prices, which could significantly affect our results of operations. 29 Some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market based pricing. In some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay market restructuring or even re regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, other proposals to re regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or re regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re regulate our business or the industry. Our Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies Continued Authorization to Sell Power at Market Based Rates In 2005 the FERC granted FES, FGCO and NGC authority to sell electricity at market based rates. These orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements. JCP&L, Met Ed, OE, Penn, Penelec and TE also have market based rate authority. The FERCs orders that grant this market based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to the orders granting these generating companies market based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the FERCs standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market based rates. FES, FGCO NGC,JCP&L, Met Ed, OE, Penn, Penelec and TE have filed to renew this authority in 2008. If any of these companies were to lose its market based rate authority or fail to have such authority renewed, it would be required to obtain the FERCs acceptance to sell power at cost based rates. FES, FGCO and NGC could also lose their waivers, and become subject to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost based rate schedules. There Are Uncertainties Relating to the Operations of the PJM and MISO Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) RTO rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. The prices in day ahead and real time energy markets and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. To the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. While RTO rates for transmission service are designed to be revenue neutral, our revenues from customers to whom we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the administrative and market related costs imposed under the RTO tariff. In addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our internal planning process. Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO developments may have. Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including limitations on GHG Emissions Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and Profitability There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Many states and environmental groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. Although several bills have been introduced at the state and federal level that would compel carbon dioxide emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. Future changes in environmental regulations governing these pollutants could require us to make increased capital expenditures for pollution control devices which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Such legislation could even make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. 30 Certain of our subsidiaries operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading, remediation and permitting at all of our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover, changes in environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. The EPAs final CAIR and CAVR require significant reductions beginning in 2009 in air emissions from coal fired power plants and the states have been given substantial discretion in developing their own rules to implement these programs. CAIR has been challenged in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. As a result, the ultimate requirements under these air emission reduction programs may not be known for several years and may differ significantly from the current rules. If the final rules are remanded by the Court of Appeals, if states elect not to participate in the various federal programs under the rules, or if the states elect to impose additional requirements on individual units that are already subject to the CAIR and or the CAVR, costs of compliance could increase significantly and could have an adverse effect on future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Alternatively, if the final rules are remanded by the Court and their implementation is postponed, we could be competitively disadvantaged because we are currently obligated to comply with essentially this same level of emission controls as a result of our settlement of the New Source Review Litigation related to our W. H. Sammis Plant. The EPAs final CAMR was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the District Court of Columbia on February 8, 2008 because the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to "de list" coal fired power plants from its hazardous air pollution program and therefore, could not promulgate a cap and trade air emissions reduction program. The EPA must now seek judicial review of the courts ruling or take further regulatory action to promulgate new hazardous air emission reduction programs which may differ significantly from the cap and trade program previously promulgated by the EPA for mercury. As a result, costs of compliance could increase significantly and could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such authority. Also, we are generally responsible for on site liabilities, and in some cases off site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of our facilities which we have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If we incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, we could suffer material losses. Availability and Cost of Emission Credits Could Materially Impact Our Costs of Operations We are required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission credits to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced to purchase such credits on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions credits that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such credits are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our Costs If federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. 31 We are and may Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other Regulated Substances at Some of our Facilities We have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRC We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. Risks Associated With Financing and Capital Structure Interest Rates and or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing Costs and Our Ability to Access Capital We have near term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Interest rates could significantly change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as in place of letters of credit and other guarantees. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. Our senior unsecured debt ratings from S&P and Moodys are investment grade. The current ratings outlook from S&P is negative and the ratings outlook from Moodys is stable. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does not comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. The ratings assigned to our debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and interest pursuant to their terms. A rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our securities. We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. 32 We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in What Amounts they May be Paid Our Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Companies respective first mortgage indentures constitute, in the opinion of the Companies counsel, direct first liens on substantially all of the respective Companies physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as defined in the first mortgage indentures. See the "Leases" and "Capitalization" notes to the respective financial statements for information concerning leases and financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Companies properties. FirstEnergy has access, either through ownership or lease, to the following generation sources as of February 28, 2008, shown in the table below. Except for the leasehold interests referenced in the footnotes to the table, substantially all of the generating units are owned by NGC (nuclear) and FGCO (non nuclear). See "Generation Asset Transfers" under Item 1 above. 33 Net Demonstrated Capacity Unit (MW) Plant Location Coal Fired Units Ashtabula Ashtabula, OH 5 244 Bay Shore Toledo, OH 1 4 631 R. E. Burger Shadyside, OH 3 5 406 Eastlake Eastlake, OH 1 5 1,233 Lakeshore Cleveland, OH 18 245 Bruce Mansfield 1 830 (a) Shippingport, PA 2 830 (b) 3 830 (c) W. H. Sammis Stratton, OH 1 7 2,220 Kyger Creek Chesire, OH 1 5 210 (d) Clifty Creek Madison, IN 1 6 253 (d) Total 7,932 Nuclear Units Beaver Valley 1 911 Shippingport, PA 2 868 (e) Davis Besse Oak Harbor, OH 1 893 Perry N. Perry Village, OH 1 1,273 (f) Total 3,945 Oil/Gas Fired/ Pumped Storage Units Richland Defiance, OH 1 6 432 Seneca Warren, PA 1 3 451 Sumpter Sumpter Twp, MI 1 4 340 West Lorain Lorain, OH 1 6 545 Yards Creek Blairstown Twp., NJ 1 3 200 (g) Other 282 Total 2,250 Total 14,127 Notes: (a) Includes FGCOs leasehold interest of 93.825% (779 MW) and CEIs leasehold interest of 6.175% (51 MW), which has been assigned to FGCO. (b) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 27.17% (226 MW) and 16.435% (136 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO. (c) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 23.247% (193 MW) and 18.915% (157 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO. (d) Represents FGCOs 20.5% entitlement based on FirstEnergys participation in OVEC. (e) Includes OEs and TEs leasehold interests of 21.66% (188 MW) and 18.26% (158 MW), respectively. (f) Includes OEs leasehold interest of 12.58% (160 MW). (g) Represents JCP&Ls 50% ownership interest. FirstEnergys generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system consisting of elements having various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to 500 kV. The Companies overhead and underground transmission lines aggregate 15,014 pole miles. 34 The Companies electric distribution systems include 117,642 miles of overhead pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street lighting circuits. They own substations with a total installed transformer capacity of 88,329,000 kV amperes. The transmission facilities that are owned by ATSI are operated on an integrated basis as part of MISO and are interconnected with facilities operated by PJM. The transmission facilities of JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec are physically interconnected and are operated on an integrated basis as part of PJM. FirstEnergys distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2007, consist of the following: Substation Distribution Transmission Transformer Lines Lines Capacity (Miles) (kV amperes) OE 30,238 550 9,718,000 Penn 5,863 44 922,000 CEI 25,239 2,144 7,841,000 TE 1,982 223 2,503,000 JCP&L 19,287 2,135 21,608,000 Met Ed 14,942 1,407 9,837,000 Penelec 20,091 2,690 14,471,000 ATSI* 5,821 21,429,000 Total 117,642 15,014 88,329,000 * Represents transmission lines of 69kv and above located in the service areas of OE, Penn, CEI and TE. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Reference is made to Note 14, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for a description of certain legal proceedings involving FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The information required by Item 5 regarding FirstEnergys market information, including stock exchange listings and quarterly stock market prices, dividends and holders of common stock is included on page 1 of FirstEnergys 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13.1). Information for FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec is not required to be disclosed because they are wholly owned subsidiaries. Information regarding compensation plans for which shares of FirstEnergy common stock may be issued is incorporated herein by reference to FirstEnergys 2008 proxy statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 35 The table below includes information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by FirstEnergy of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. Period October 1 31, 2007 November 1 30, 2007 December 1 31, 2007 Fourth Quarter Total Number of Shares Purchased (a) 66,271 98,238 392,793 557,302 Average Price Paid per Share $67.21 $71.81 $71.47 $71.02 Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (b) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (a) Share amounts reflect purchases on the open market to satisfy FirstEnergys obligations to deliver common stock under its 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, Savings Plan and Stock Investment Plan. In addition, such amounts reflect shares tendered by employees to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes upon exercise of stock options granted under the Executive and Director Incentive Compensation Plan and shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans. (b) On December 10, 2007, FirstEnergys plan to repurchase up to 16 million shares of its common stock through June 30, 2008, was concluded. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
 
