Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other sections of this Form 10 K that include forward looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. Risks Related to Business Operations Risks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution Equipment Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including, the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. 23 Table of Contents Operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. Unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer MWH or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.36 billion for FES, $666 million for OE and an aggregate of $622 million for TE and CEI as co lessees. We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. Changes in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins We purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. Changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply POLR and default service obligations in the states we do business. In addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers; illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; changes in power production capacity; outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; changes in legislation and regulation; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge Against We purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market based tariffs authorized by the FERC, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. 24 Table of Contents We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. The Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses That May Negatively Impact Our Financial Results We use a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. Financial Derivatives Reforms Could Increase Our Liquidity Needs and Collateral Costs In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how over the counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated. The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us and other end users. These requirements could cause our OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements. In addition, as these reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to protect. Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit, Are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such Policies We attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. For example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. Also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. We also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower priced market or make purchases in a higher priced market than existed at the time of executing the contract. Although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then current market prices. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning We are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. Also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Our nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under these policies, up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. We have also obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $79 million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying losses. The Price Anderson Act limits the public liability that can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to $12.6 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to operate in the United States) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to $375 million; and (ii) $12.2 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Our maximum potential exposure under these provisions would be $470 million per incident but not more than $70 million in any one year. Capital Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Decommissioning Trust Fund, Pension Fund Assets and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require Significant Additional Funding Our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other post retirement benefit plans. The value of certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. If the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Capital market conditions that generate investment losses or greater liability levels can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. 26 Table of Contents We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and or Penalties Related to Mandatory Reliability Standards Set by NERC/FERC or Changes in the Rules of Organized Markets and the States in Which We Do Business As a result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and approved by FERC as well as mandatory reliability standards and energy efficiency requirements imposed by each of the states in which we operate. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. Reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which could negatively impact our business. The FERC can now impose penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. In addition to direct regulation by the FERC and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, the independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. In addition, the RTOs may direct our transmission owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet the reliability requirements of the RTO or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the RTO tariffs. We Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets That We Do Not Own or Control to Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted Including Our Own Transmission, or Not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our Ability to Sell and Deliver Power May Be Hindered We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system operators, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. In addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. If we are unable to hedge or recover for such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. Demand for electricity within our Utilities service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures. The FERC requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open access, non discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. Disruptions in Our Fuel Supplies Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Generation Facilities and Impact Financial Results We purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Operation of our coal fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. Although we have long term contracts in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. If prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Temperature Variations as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or Above Our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect Our Energy Margins Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snow storms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. Customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. A significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required under the terms of the default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at capped rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to Regional and General Economic Cycles and also Related to Heavy Manufacturing Industries such as Automotive and Steel Our business follows the economic cycles of our customers. As our retail strategy is centered around the sale of output from our generating plants generally where that power will reach, therefore, we are more directly impacted by the economic conditions in our primary markets (i.e., Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland, New Jersey, Michigan and Illinois). Declines in demand for electricity as a result of a regional economic downturn would be expected to reduce overall electricity sales and reduce our revenues. Electric generation sales volume has been, and is expected to continue to be, influenced by circumstances in automotive, steel and other heavy industries. Increases in Customer Electric Rates and Economic Uncertainty May Lead to a Greater Amount of Uncollectible Customer Accounts Our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Goodwill of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries May Become Impaired, Which Would Result in Write Offs of the Impaired Amounts Goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years would depend on many uncertainties, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable utility acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements We must find ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments. 28 Table of Contents Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and Liquidity We continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect cost pressures could increase as we continue to implement our retail sales strategy. We expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. Our Business is Subject to the Risk that Sensitive Customer Data May be Compromised, Which Could Result in an Adverse Impact to Our Reputation and or Results of Operations Our business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and credit information, in the ordinary course of business. A security breach may occur, despite security measures taken by us and required of vendors. If a significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become subject to legal claims, fines or penalties, any of which could have a negative impact on our business and or results of operations. Acts of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business The possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters Our business plan calls for extensive capital investments. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and or obtain the required construction related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects. Changes in Technology May Significantly Affect Our Generation Business by Making Our Generating Facilities Less Competitive We primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for Our Business in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Those Acquisitions Asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. 29 Table of Contents Ability of Certain FirstEnergy Companies to Meet Their Obligations to Other FirstEnergy Companies Certain of the FirstEnergy companies have obligations to other FirstEnergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services, and because of hedging transactions. If one FirstEnergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other FirstEnergy entities could incur losses. Their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting FirstEnergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. Our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall FirstEnergy exposures. Some FirstEnergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. Risks Associated With Our Proposed Merger With Allegheny We May be Unable to Obtain the Approvals Required to Complete Our Merger with Allegheny or, in Order to do so, the Combined Company May be Required to Comply With Material Restrictions or Conditions On February 11, 2010, we announced the execution of a merger agreement with Allegheny. The only regulatory approval pending is from the PPUC. The PPUC could impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following completion of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the combined company and or cause either us or Allegheny to abandon the merger. If Completed, Our Merger with Allegheny May Not Achieve Its Intended Results We and Allegheny entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to both the regulated utility operations and the generation business. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business of Allegheny is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial results and prospects. We Will be Subject to Business Uncertainties and Contractual Restrictions While the Merger with Allegheny is Pending That Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results Uncertainty about the effect of the merger with Allegheny on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to accept employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be affected. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of Allegheny into our company may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management attention away from day to day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without Alleghenys consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. Failure to Complete Our Merger with Allegheny Could Negatively Impact Our Stock Price and Our Future Business and Financial Results If our merger with Allegheny is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: We may be required, under specified circumstances set forth in the Merger Agreement, to pay Allegheny a termination fee of $350 million and or Alleghenys reasonable out of pocket transaction expenses up to $45 million; we would be required to pay costs relating to the merger, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing costs, whether or not the merger is completed; and matters relating to our merger with Allegheny (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. We could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete our merger with Allegheny. If our merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. 30 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Regulation Complex and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not be set to recover its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. For example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. For example, our utility subsidiaries ability to timely recover rates and charges associated with integration of the ATSI footprint into PJM is uncertain. Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry, Including a Reversal, Discontinuance or Delay of the Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets, Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of Operations As a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the United States, including the states in which we do business. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business. Some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market based pricing. In some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise delay market restructuring or even re regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to re regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or re regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re regulate our business or the industry. The Prospect of Rising Rates Could Prompt Legislative or Regulatory Action to Restrict or Control Such Rate Increases. This In Turn Could Create Uncertainty Affecting Planning, Costs and Results of Operations and May Adversely Affect the Utilities Ability to Recover Their Costs, Maintain Adequate Liquidity and Address Capital Requirements Increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. Such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. Such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. 31 Table of Contents Our Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies Continued Authorization to Sell Power at Market Based Rates The FERC granted FES, FGCO and NGC authority to sell electricity at market based rates. These orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements. The Utilities also have market based rate authority. The FERCs orders that grant this market based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to the orders granting the generating companies market based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the FERCs standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market based rates. FES, FGCO, NGC and the Utilities renewed this authority for PJM in 2008 and MISO in 2009. On December 30, 2010, FES, FGCO, NGC and the Utilities filed to renew this authority for operations within PJM. If any of these companies were to lose their market based rate authority, they would be required to obtain the FERCs acceptance to sell power at cost based rates. FES, FGCO and NGC could also lose their waivers, and become subject to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost based rate schedules. There Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in RTOs RTO rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. The prices in day ahead and real time energy markets and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. To the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. While RTO rates for transmission service are cost based, our revenues from customers to whom we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the administrative and market related costs imposed under the RTO tariff. In addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our internal planning process. As a member of an RTO, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that RTOs market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. The MISO has proposed changes to its rates and tariffs that may result or cause significant charges to ATSI or the Ohio Companies or Penn upon their respective withdrawal from the MISO on May 31, 2011. The implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to increase our costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs associated with estimated payment settlements. Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO developments may have. 32 Table of Contents A Significant Delay in or Challenges to Various Elements of ATSIs Consolidation into PJM, including but not Limited to, the Intervention of Parties to the Regulatory Proceedings Could have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition On December 17, 2009, FERC authorized, subject to certain conditions, FirstEnergy to consolidate its transmission assets and operations that currently are located in MISO into PJM; such consolidation to be effective on June 1, 2011. The consolidation will make the transmission assets that are part of ATSI, whose footprint includes the Ohio Companies and Penn, part of PJM. Consolidation on June 1, 2011 will coincide with delivery of power under the next competitive generation procurement process for the Ohio Companies. On December 17, 2009, and after FERC issued the order, ATSI executed and delivered to PJM those legal documents necessary to implement its consolidation into PJM. On December 18, 2009, the Ohio Companies and Penn executed and delivered to PJM those legal documents necessary to follow ATSI into PJM. Currently, ATSI, the Ohio Companies and Penn are expected to consolidate into PJM as planned on June 1, 2011. On February 1, 2011, ATSI filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJMs tariffs. Numerous parties are expected to intervene and file responsive comments. Our expectation is that ATSI will enter PJM as scheduled on June 1, 2011, and that if legal proceedings regarding its rate are outstanding at that time, ATSI will be permitted to start charging its proposed rates, subject to refund. Additional FERC proceedings are either pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the ATSI zone upon its departure from the Midwest ISO will be determined. In addition, certain other parties continue to protest aspects of the move into PJM, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved in future FERC proceedings. A ruling by FERC or any other regulator with jurisdiction in favor of one or more of the intervening or protesting parties (and against FirstEnergy) on one or more of the disputed issues could result in a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Energy Conservation and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Results A number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. To the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our merchant generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. We currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery timeframe in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In New Jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the SBC. Currently only Ohio has provisions for recovery of lost revenues. In our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Our results could be affected if we are unable to increase our customers participation in our energy efficiency programs. We are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. Our Business and Activities are Subject to Extensive Environmental Requirements and Could be Adversely Affected by such Requirements We may be forced to shut down facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. In fact, we are exposed to the risk that such electric generating plants would not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines. The EPA is Conducting NSR Investigations at a Number of Our Generating Plants, the Results of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition We may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. For example, applicable standards under the EPAs NSR initiatives remain in flux. Under the CAA, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that causes increased emissions could subject our existing facilities to the far more stringent NSR standards applicable to new facilities. 33 Table of Contents The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards in connection with work believed by the companies to be routine maintenance. We are currently involved in litigation and EPA investigations concerning alleged violations of the NSR standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. We intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position in these environmental matters but FGCO is unable to predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For a more complete discussion see Environmental Matters. Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG Emissions, Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and Profitability Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading, remediation and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover, changes in environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Many states and environmental groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. Also, claims have been made alleging that CO2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and or state common law. Private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damage from exposure to hazardous materials. Recently the courts have begun to acknowledge these claims and may order us to reduce GHG emissions in the future. There is a growing consensus in the United States and globally that GHG emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. In December 2009, the EPA issued an endangerment and cause or contributing finding for GHG under the CAA, which will allow the EPA to craft rules that directly regulate GHG. This finding triggered several regulatory actions under the CAA, resulting, among other things in the regulation of GHG emissions from large stationary sources. Although several bills have been introduced at the state and federal level that would compel carbon dioxide emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including CO2, as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Until specific regulations are promulgated, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, on June 26, 2009. The Senate continues to consider a number of measures to regulate GHG emissions. President Obama has announced his Administrations New Energy for America Plan that includes, among other provisions, ensuring that 10% of electricity used in the United States comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing to 25% by 2025, and implementing an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050. State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states, led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs. 34 Table of Contents In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that required FirstEnergy to measure GHG emissions commencing in 2010 and begin to submit reports commencing in 2011. In December 2009, the EPA released its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act. The EPAs finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the CAA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAAs NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) effective January 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the CAAs PSD program, but until July 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if PSD is triggered by non carbon dioxide pollutants. At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non binding political agreement which recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees Celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate related activities in developing countries. Once they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non CO2 emitting gas fired and nuclear generators. The EPAs CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in its entirety and directed the EPA to redo its analysis from the ground up. In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Courts opinion. In July 2010, the EPA proposed the CATR to replace CAIR, which remains in effect until the EPA finalizes CATR. CATR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.6 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. The EPA proposed a preferred regulatory approach that allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and severely limits interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances. The EPA also requested comment on two alternative approaches the first eliminates interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances and the second eliminates trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances in its entirety. Depending on the actions taken by the EPA with respect to CATR, the proposed MACT regulations discussed below and any future regulations that are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance may be substantial. The EPAs CAMR provides for a cap and trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping nationwide emissions of mercury at 38 tons by 2010 (as a co benefit from implementation of SO2 and NOX emission caps under the EPAs CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, at the urging of several states and environmental groups, vacated the CAMR, ruling that the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to de list coal fired power plants from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a cap and trade program. On April 29, 2010, the EPA issued proposed MACT regulations requiring emissions reductions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from non electric generating unit boilers, including boilers which do not use fossil fuels. If finalized, the non electric generating unit MACT regulations could also provide precedent for MACT standards applicable to electric generating units. On January 20, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia denied a motion by the EPA for an extension of the deadline to issue final rules, ordering the EPA to issue such rules by February 21, 2011. The EPA also entered into a consent decree requiring it to propose MACT regulations for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units by March 16, 2011, and to finalize the regulations by November 16, 2011. Depending on the action taken by the EPA and on how any future regulations are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance with MACT regulations may be substantial and changes to FGCOs operations may result. Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, various states have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations. 35 Table of Contents The EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). The EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs; permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. On April 1, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuits opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. The EPA is developing a new regulation under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act consistent with the opinions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals which have created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final performance standard. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plants water intake channel to divert fish away from the plants water intake system. On November 19, 2010, the Ohio EPA issued a permit for the Bay Shore power plant requiring installation of reverse louvers in its entire water intake channel by April 1, 2013. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. Also, If either the federal or state final regulations require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures (cooling towers) at any of our power plants, and if installation of such cooling towers is not technically or economically feasible, we may be forced to take actions which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPAs evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste. On December 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the EPA said that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. On May 4, 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FGCOs future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. The Physical Risks Associated with Climate Change May Impact Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows. Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Utilities service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. Remediation of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned Facilities We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. Remediation activities associated with our former MGP operations are one source of such costs. We are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. 36 Table of Contents Availability and Cost of Emission Credits Could Materially Impact Our Costs of Operations We are required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission credits to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced to purchase such credits on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions credits that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such credits are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. Laws and regulations such as CAIR may, and are, being revised and as CAIR is being rewritten it is creating uncertainty in many areas, including but not limited to, the annual NOx emission allowances beyond 2010. Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our Costs If federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. We are unable to predict what impact, if any, these changes may have on our financial condition or results of operations. We Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other Regulated Substances at Some of Our Facilities We have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRC We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. Future Changes in Financial Accounting Standards May Affect Our Reported Financial Results The SEC, FASB or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. The SEC has announced a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact that the use of IFRS by U.S. public companies would have on the U.S. securities market. Given the results of the work plan, the SEC expects to make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements and we will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS. Increases in Taxes and Fees. Due to the revenue needs of the United States and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. We cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies. If enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 37 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Financing and Capital Structure Interest Rates and or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing Costs, Our Ability to Access Capital and Our Requirement to Post Collateral We have near term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings (all of which were eventually remarketed) of variable interest rate tax exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. Continuation of these disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. On February 11, 2010, SP issued a report lowering FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. As a result, FirstEnergy may be required to post up to $48 million of collateral. Moodys and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries on February 11, 2010. On September 28, 2010, SP then affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FE and its subsidiaries. On December 15, 2010, Fitch revised its outlook on FE and FES from stable to negative and affirmed the rating for FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does not comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. The ratings assigned to our debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and interest pursuant to their terms. A rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our securities. Also, we cannot predict how rating agencies may modify their evaluation process or the impact such a modification may have on our ratings. Our credit ratings also govern the collateral provisions of certain contract guarantees. Subsequent to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of cash collateral may be required. See Note 15(B) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on Our Utility Subsidiaries Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in What Amounts they May be Paid Our Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. 38 Table of Contents Disruptions in the Capital and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business, Including the Availability and Cost of Short Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our Ability to Meet Long Term Commitments, Our Ability to Hedge Effectively Our Generation Portfolio, and the Competitiveness and Liquidity of Energy Markets; Each Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition We rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. Our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Questions Regarding the Soundness of Financial Institutions or Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Us We have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement. We also deposit cash balances in short term investments. Our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds reside. Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Utilities (other than ATSI and JCPL), FGCOs and NGCs respective first mortgage indentures constitute, in the opinion of their counsel, direct first liens on substantially all of the respective Utilities, FGCOs and NGCs physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as defined in the first mortgage indentures. See the Leases and Capitalization notes to the respective financial statements for information concerning leases and financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Utilities, FGCOs and NGCs properties. FirstEnergy controls the following generation sources as of January 31, 2011, shown in the table below. Except for the leasehold interests, OVEC participation and purchased wind power referenced in the footnotes to the table, substantially all of the generating units are owned by NGC (nuclear) and FGCO (non nuclear). 39 Table of Contents Net Demonstrated Plant Location Unit Capacity (MW) Coal Fired Units Ashtabula Ashtabula, OH 5 244 Bay Shore Toledo, OH 1 4 631 R. E. Burger Shadyside, OH 3 94 Eastlake Eastlake, OH 1 5 1,233 Lakeshore Cleveland, OH 18 245 Bruce Mansfield 1 830 (a) Shippingport, PA 2 830 (b) 3 830 (c) W. H. Sammis Stratton, OH 1 7 2,220 Kyger Creek Cheshire, OH 1 5 50 (d) Clifty Creek Madison, IN 1 6 60 (d) Total 7,267 Nuclear Units Beaver Valley 1 911 Shippingport, PA 2 904 (e) Davis Besse Oak Harbor, OH 1 908 Perry N. Perry Village, OH 1 1,268 (f) Total 3,991 Oil/Gas Fired/ Pumped Storage Units Richland Defiance, OH 1 6 432 Seneca Warren, PA 1 3 451 West Lorain Lorain, OH 1 6 545 Yards Creek Blairstown Twp., NJ 1 3 200 (g) Wind power 376 (h) Other 174 Total 2,178 Grand Total 13,436 (a) Includes FGCOs leasehold interest of 93.825% (779 MW) and CEIs leasehold interest of 6.175% (51 MW), which has been assigned to FGCO. (b) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 27.17% (226 MW) and 16.435% (136 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO. (c) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 23.247% (193 MW) and 18.915% (157 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO. (d) Represents FGCOs 4.85% entitlement based on its participation in OVEC. (e) Includes OEs leasehold interest of 16.65% (151 MW) from non affiliates. (f) Includes OEs leasehold interest of 8.11% (103 MW) from non affiliates. (g) Represents JCPLs 50% ownership interest. (h) Includes 167 MW from leased facilities and 209 MW under power purchase agreements. The above generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system consisting of elements having various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to 500 kV. The Utilities overhead and underground transmission lines aggregate 14,932 pole miles. The Utilities electric distribution systems include 194,685 miles of overhead pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street lighting circuits. They own substations with a total installed transformer capacity of 85,247,000 kV amperes. 40 Table of Contents The transmission facilities that are owned by ATSI are currently operated on an integrated basis as part of MISO through May 31, 2011. Effective June 1, 2011, the ATSI transmission assets will be migrated from MISO and integrated into PJM. The transmission facilities of JCPL, Met Ed and Penelec are physically interconnected and are operated on an integrated basis as part of PJM. FirstEnergys distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2010, consist of the following: Substation Distribution Transmission Transformer Lines Lines Capacity** OE 62,156 461 8,300,000 Penn 13,389 52 1,351,000 CEI 33,210 8,754,000 TE 17,592 81 2,497,000 JCPL 22,668 2,549 20,078,000 Met Ed 18,641 1,405 8,595,000 Penelec 27,029 2,860 12,409,000 ATSI* 7,524 23,263,000 Total 194,685 14,932 85,247,000 * Represents transmission lines of 69kV and above located in the service areas of OE, Penn, CEI and TE. ** Top rating of in service power transformers only. Excludes grounding banks, station power transformers, and generator and customer owned transformers. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Reference is made to Note 14, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, of FirstEnergys Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for a description of certain legal proceedings involving FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCPL, Met Ed and Penelec. ITEM 4. REMOVED AND RESERVED PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The information required by Item 5 regarding FirstEnergys market information, including stock exchange listings and quarterly stock market prices, dividends and holders of common stock is included in Item 6. Information for FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCPL, Met Ed and Penelec is not disclosed because they are wholly owned subsidiaries of FirstEnergy and there is no market for their common stock. Information regarding compensation plans for which shares of FirstEnergy common stock may be issued is incorporated herein by reference to FirstEnergys 2011 proxy statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The table below includes information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by FirstEnergy of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period October November December Fourth Quarter Total Number of Shares Purchased(a) 68,246 133,762 539,703 741,711 Average Price Paid per Share $ 38.50 $ 35.99 $ 35.48 $ 35.85 Total Number of Shares Purchased As Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (a) Share amounts reflect purchases on the open market to satisfy FirstEnergys obligations to deliver common stock under its 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, Savings Plan and Stock Investment Plan. In addition, such amounts reflect shares tendered by employees to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes upon exercise of stock options granted under the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 13,339 $ 12,973 $ 13,627 $ 12,802 $ 11,501 Income From Continuing Operations $ 784 $ 1,006 $ 1,342 $ 1,309 $ 1,258 Earnings Available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 784 $ 1,006 $ 1,342 $ 1,309 $ 1,254 Basic Earnings per Share of Common Stock: Income from continuing operations $ 2.58 $ 3.31 $ 4.41 $ 4.27 $ 3.85 Earnings per basic share $ 2.58 $ 3.31 $ 4.41 $ 4.27 $ 3.84 Diluted Earnings per Share of Common Stock: Income from continuing operations $ 2.57 $ 3.29 $ 4.38 $ 4.22 $ 3.82 Earnings per diluted share $ 2.57 $ 3.29 $ 4.38 $ 4.22 $ 3.81 Dividends Declared per Share of Common Stock(1) $ 2.20 $ 2.20 $ 2.20 $ 2.05 $ 1.85 Total Assets $ 34,805 $ 34,304 $ 33,521 $ 32,311 $ 31,196 Capitalization as of December 31: Total Equity $ 8,513 $ 8,557 $ 8,315 $ 9,007 $ 9,069 Long Term Debt and Other Long Term Obligations 12,579 12,008 9,100 8,869 8,535 Total Capitalization $ 21,092 $ 20,565 $ 17,415 $ 17,876 $ 17,604 Weighted Average Number of Basic Shares Outstanding 304 304 304 306 324 Weighted Average Number of Diluted Shares Outstanding 305 306 307 310 327 (1) Dividends declared in 2010, 2009 and 2008 include four quarterly dividends of $0.55 per share. Dividends declared in 2007 include three quarterly payments of $0.50 per share in 2007 and one quarterly payment of $0.55 per share in 2008. Dividends declared in 2006 include three quarterly payments of $0.45 per share in 2006 and one quarterly payment of $0.50 per share in 2007. PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK The common stock of FirstEnergy Corp. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FE and is traded on other registered exchanges. 2010 2009 First Quarter High Low $ 47.09 $ 38.31 $ 53.63 $ 35.63 Second Quarter High Low $ 39.96 $ 33.57 $ 43.29 $ 35.26 Third Quarter High Low $ 39.06 $ 34.51 $ 47.82 $ 36.73 Fourth Quarter High Low $ 40.12 $ 35.00 $ 47.77 $ 41.57 Yearly High Low $ 47.09 $ 33.57 $ 53.63 $ 35.26 Prices are from http://finance.yahoo.com. SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the total cumulative return from a $100 investment on December 31, 2005 in FirstEnergys common stock compared with the total cumulative returns of EEIs Index of Investor Owned Electric Utility Companies and the SP 500. 43 Table of Contents HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK There were 105,822 and 105,518 holders of 304,835,407 shares of FirstEnergys common stock as of December 31, 2010 and January 31, 2011, respectively. Information regarding retained earnings available for payment of cash dividends is given in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF REGISTRANT AND SUBSIDIARIES Forward Looking Statements: This Form 10 K includes forward looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: The speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. The impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business. Business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins. Changes in markets for energy services. Changing energy and commodity market prices and availability. Financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged. The continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs. Operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated. Other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission and coal combustion residual regulations. The potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR. The uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to resolve any NSR litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units). Adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC. Adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania. Any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labors notice of a potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No.1. The continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity. The ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates. Changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates. The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives). The ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business. The changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated. The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital. Changes in general economic conditions affecting the registrants. The state of the capital and credit markets affecting the registrants. Interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect the registrants access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees. The continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the registrants major industrial and commercial customers. Issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which the registrants do business. The expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of managements time and attention from FirstEnergys ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect. The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 45 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGY CORP. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. in 2010 were $784 million, or basic earnings of $2.58 per share of common stock ($2.57 diluted), compared with $1.01 billion, or basic earnings of $3.31 per share of common stock ($3.29 diluted), in 2009 and $1.34 billion, or basic earnings of $4.41 per share ($4.38 diluted), in 2008. Change in Basic Earnings Per Share From Prior Year 2010 2009 Basic Earnings Per Share Prior Year $ 3.31 $ 4.41 Non core asset sales/impairments (0.37 ) 0.47 Generating plant impairments (0.77 ) Litigation settlement 0.04 (0.03 ) Trust securities impairments 0.03 0.16 Regulatory charges 0.45 (0.55 ) Derivative mark to market adjustment 0.35 (0.42 ) Organizational restructuring 0.14 (0.14 ) Debt redemption premium 0.32 (0.31 ) Merger transaction costs 2010 (0.16 ) Income tax resolution (0.57 ) 0.68 Revenues 1.06 (1.85 ) Fuel and purchased power (0.68 ) (0.09 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net 0.22 (0.02 ) Investment income (0.20 ) 0.20 Interest expense (0.14 ) Transmission expense (0.20 ) 0.73 Other expenses (0.39 ) 0.21 Basic Earnings Per Share $ 2.58 $ 3.31 2010 was a transformational year for FirstEnergy, and one in which we built a strong foundation for future success. On February 11, 2010, FirstEnergy and Allegheny announced a proposed merger that would create the nations largest electric utility system, with: more than 6 million customers across ten regulated electric distribution subsidiaries in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and West Virginia, generation subsidiaries owning or controlling approximately 24,000 MWs of generating capacity from a diversified mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable power, and transmission subsidiaries owning over 20,000 miles of high voltage lines connecting the Midwest and Mid Atlantic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger, Allegheny shareholders would receive 0.667 of a share of FirstEnergy common stock in exchange for each share of Allegheny they own. 2010 also marked FirstEnergys final transition year to competitive markets with the expiration of the rate cap on Met Ed and Penelecs retail generation rates on December 31, 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed and Penelec obtain their power supply from the competitive wholesale market and fully recover their generation costs through retail rates. All of FirstEnergys other regulated utilities previously transitioned to competitive generation markets. The effects of the uncertainty in the U.S. economy continue to present challenges. Although economic recovery began across our service territories, power sales and deliveries have still not returned to pre recessionary levels. Distribution deliveries in 2010 were 108.0 million MWH, compared with 102.3 million MWH in 2009, driven primarily by an 8.4% increase in deliveries to the industrial sector, with the largest gains from customers in the automotive and steel industries. Industrial usage is lagging pre recessionary levels by approximately 11%. Residential sales were up 6%, primarily due to warmer weather during the summer of 2010. Wholesale power prices continued to be weak; however, generation output improved in 2010 with output of 74.9 million MWH compared to the 2009 output of 65.6 million MWH. In the second half of 2010, FES entered into financial transactions that offset the mark to market impact of 500 MW of legacy purchased power contracts which were entered into in 2008 for delivery in 2010 and 2011 and which were marked to market beginning in December 2009. These financial transactions eliminate the volatility in GAAP earnings associated with marking these contracts to market through the end of 2011. 46 Table of Contents FES continued implementation of its retail strategy by focusing on direct, governmental aggregation and POLR sales opportunities. As of February 8, 2011, FES committed sales (as a percentage of total projected sales) for 2011 and 2012 were 96% and 65% respectively. Operational Matters PJM RTO Integration In March 2010 two FRR Integration Auctions were conducted by PJM on behalf of the Ohio Companies to secure electric capacity for delivery years June 1, 2011, through May 31, 2012, and June 1, 2012, through May 31, 2013. In the 2011/2012 auction, 27 suppliers participated and 12,583 MW of unforced capacity (the MW bid into the auction after adjusting for historical forced outage rates) cleared at a price of $108.89/MW day. The 2012/2013 auction had 28 market participants, with 13,038 MW of unforced capacity clearing at a price of $20.46/MW day. FirstEnergy plans to integrate its operations into PJM by June 1, 2011. Nuclear Generation On February 28, 2010, the Davis Besse Nuclear Plant (908 MW) shut down for its 16th scheduled refueling outage to exchange 76 of 177 fuel assemblies and to conduct numerous safety inspections. During the outage, it was determined through testing that modification work also needed to be performed on certain CRDM nozzles that penetrate the reactor vessel head. Modifications of 24 of the 69 nozzles on the reactor head were completed and Davis Besse returned to service on June 29, 2010. The plant was originally scheduled to have a new reactor vessel head installed in 2014. This timeline was voluntarily accelerated, and FirstEnergy plans to install the new reactor head in the fall of 2011. On August 30, 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse operating license. In a letter dated October 18, 2010, the NRC determined that the Davis Besse license renewal application was complete and acceptable for docketing and further review. Davis Besse currently is licensed until 2017; if approved, the renewal would extend operations for an additional 20 years, until 2037. On October 2, 2010, Beaver Valley Nuclear Power Station Unit 1 (911 MW) began its scheduled refueling and maintenance outage. During the outage FENOC exchanged 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies, conducted safety inspections and performed routine maintenance work. The plant returned to service on November 4, 2010. Coal and Gas Fired Generation On March 31, 2010, FGCO closed the sale of its 340 MW Sumpter Plant in Sumpter, Michigan, to Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc. FirstEnergy recorded a $6 million impairment of the Sumpter plant in December 2009 and a loss of $9 million with the sale in the first quarter of 2010. The plant consists of four 85 MW natural gas turbines and represented FirstEnergys only generation assets in Michigan. On August 12, 2010, FirstEnergy announced that operational changes would be made to some of the smaller coal fired units in response to the slow economy, the lower demand for electricity and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Beginning September 2010, Bay Shore units 2 4, Eastlake units 1 4, the Lake Shore Plant, and the Ashtabula Plant, which total 1,620 MW of capacity, began operating with minimum three day notice and in response to consumer demand. FGCO recognized an impairment of $303 million ($190 million after tax) related to these assets in 2010. On November 17, 2010, we announced plans to cancel repowering Units 4 and 5 (312 MW) at the R.E. Burger Plant to generate electricity principally with biomass. FGCO recognized an impairment of $72 million ($45 million after tax) and permanently shut down these units on December 31, 2010, due to the current market conditions. During the third quarter of 2010, FGCO re evaluated the schedule for completing the Fremont Plant (707 MW) due to market conditions and the extension of the tax incentives included in the Small Business legislation through 2011. As a result, FGCO extended the plants expected completion to December 31, 2011, to reduce overtime labor cost and outside contractor spend for the remainder of the project. On February 3, 2011, FirstEnergy and American Municipal Power, Inc., entered into a non binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the sale of our Fremont Energy Center. The MOU provides, among other things, for the parties to engage in exclusive negotiations towards a definitive agreement expected to be executed in March, 2011, with a targeted closing date in July, 2011. On December 28, 2010, FirstEnergy closed the sale of 6.65% of FGCOs participation interest in the output of OVEC (approximately 150 MW) to Peninsula Generation Cooperative, a subsidiary of Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc., effective December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys remaining interest in OVEC is 4.85%. The gain from this transaction increased 2010 net income by $53.8 million. The Signal Peak coal mining operation in Montana, a joint venture owned 50% by FirstEnergy, began production in December 2009, providing FirstEnergy flexibility with respect to coal commodity supply for its fossil generation fleet. As part of this transaction, we also entered into a 15 year agreement to purchase up to 10 million tons of coal annually from the mine, securing a long term western fuel supply at attractive prices. Signal Peak provides us with optionality to either burn its western coal in our units, or sell the coal through the venture to other domestic or international buyers. 47 Table of Contents Finally, in 2010 we completed a $1.8 billion environmental retrofit of the W.H. Sammis Plant in Stratton, Ohio. This project was designed to reduce SO2 emissions by 95% at the plant and NOx emissions by 90% at its two largest units. This project was among the largest AQC retrofits ever completed in the United States. Ohio Wind Power Project On February 8, 2011, FES announced its agreement to purchase 100 MW of output from Blue Creek Wind Farm (304 MW), which is being built in western Ohio by Iberdrola Renewables. Under terms of the agreement FES will purchase 100 MW of the total output of the project for 20 years beginning in October 2012. Financial Matters Cash flow from operations in 2010 was at a record level of $3.1 billion. During the year we also completed refinancing $725 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. In April and June of 2010, FGCO, a subsidiary of FES, purchased $235 million of variable rate PCRBs and $15 million of fixed rate PCRBs, respectively, originally issued on its behalf. In August of 2010, FES completed the remarketing of the $250 million of PCRBs; $235 million were successfully converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate and the remaining $15 million of PCRBs remain in a fixed rate mode. The $235 million series now bears a per annum rate of 2.25% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 3, 2013. The $15 million series now bears a per annum rate of 1.5% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 1, 2011. Subsequently, in October of 2010, FES completed the refinancing and remarketing of six series of PCRBs totaling $313 million. These series were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate of 3.375% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase on July 1, 2015. On December 3, 2010, FES and Penelec completed the refinancing and remarketing of five series of PCRBs totaling $178 million. These series were converted from variable rate to fixed interest rates ranging from 2.25% to 3.75% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase. In May of 2010, FirstEnergy terminated fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $3.2 billion, which resulted in cash proceeds of $43.1 million. As of June 30, 2010, the debt underlying the $3.2 billion outstanding notional amount of interest rate swaps had a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6%, which the swaps converted to a current weighted average variable rate of 4%. On July 16, 2010, FirstEnergy terminated these fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements resulting in cash proceeds of $83.6 million. The related gain from both of those transactions will generally be amortized to earnings over the life of the underlying debt. As of December 31, 2010, there were no fixed to floating swaps hedging the consolidated interest rate risk associated with FirstEnergys consolidated debt. On June 1, 2010, Penn redeemed $1 million of 5.40% PCRBs, due 2013, and on July 30, 2010, redeemed $6.5 million of its 7.65% FMBs due in 2023. On October 22, 2010, Signal Peak Energy and Global Rail Group, as borrowers, entered into a new $350 million senior secured term loan facility. The two year syndicated bank loan is guaranteed by FirstEnergy and the other owners of the borrowers. The proceeds from the loan were used to repay bank borrowings ($63 million) and debt owed to FirstEnergy ($258 million) with the balance to be used for other general corporate purposes. In February 2010, SP issued a report lowering FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. Moodys and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. These rating agency actions were taken in response to the announcement of the proposed merger with Allegheny. On September 28, 2010 SP affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FE and its subsidiaries. On December 15, 2010, Fitch revised its outlook on FirstEnergy and FES from stable to negative and affirmed the rating for FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. Regulatory Matters Ohio ESP The Ohio Companies will be operating under a new ESP effective June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2014, which was filed in March 2010 and approved by the PUCO in August 2010. That ESP provides customers with no overall increase to base distribution rates during the plan period and limits the costs they will pay related to certain PJM transmission projects. The ESP provides the Ohio Companies with recovery of capital invested in their distribution businesses through a Delivery Capital Recovery Rider effective January 1, 2012, through May 31, 2014. Generation rates for the annual delivery periods during the plan are determined through a CBP which will be conducted every October and January for generation service through May 31, 2014. The first two CBPs were conducted in October 2010 and January 2011. Both auctions consisted of one, two and three year products. The results of these auctions were accepted by the PUCO. The next auction is scheduled for October 2011. 48 Table of Contents Pennsylvania Default Service Plan On October 20, 2010, the PPUC approved the results of various auctions held to procure the default service requirements for Met Ed and Penelec customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier. The auction was the last of four auctions for the five month period of January 1, 2011 to May 31, 2011, and the second of four auctions to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013. The PPUC also approved the default service RFP for the Residential Fixed Block On Peak and Off Peak energy products. On January 18 20, 2011, Met Ed, Penelec and Penn conducted auctions to procure a portion of the default service requirements for their customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier. The January 2011 auction was the third of four auctions for Met Ed and Penelec and the first of two auctions for Penn to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013. For Met Ed, Penelec and Penn commercial customers the tranche weighted average price ($/MWH) was $69.97, $59.32 and $57.88, respectively, and for residential customers the tranche weighted average price was $70.69, $59.74 and $55.39, respectively. This was also the first of two auctions held to procure residential service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012. For Met Ed, Penelec and Penn residential customers the tranche weighted average price ($/MWH) was $67.43, $58.01 and $60.29, respectively. In addition, the January 2011 auction procured supply for Met Ed and Penelec industrial customers Hourly Priced Default Service. For Met Ed and Penelec, the average 12 month price ($/MWH) was $9.90 and $9.91, respectively. The PPUC approved the results of the January 2011 auctions on January 24, 2011. Penn Powers settlement for approval of its Default Service Plan for the period of June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013 was approved by the PPUC on October 21, 2010. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs. Energy Efficiency, Smart Grid and Smart Meter Programs On June 3, 2010, FirstEnergy and the DOE signed grants totaling $57.4 million that were awarded as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to introduce smart grid technologies in targeted areas in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New Jersey. The DOE grants represent 50% of the funding for approximately $115 million FirstEnergy plans to invest in smart grid technologies. The PPUC, PUCO and NJBPU have approved recovery of the remaining costs not funded through the DOE grant for the smart grid programs in Pennsylvania, Ohio and New Jersey, respectively, and the programs are underway in all three states. Pennsylvanias Act 129 (Act 129) requires all Pennsylvania electric distribution companies with more than 100,000 customers to install smart meter technology within 15 years. On April 15, 2010, the PPUC adopted a Motion by Chairman Cawley that modified the ALJs initial decision issued on January 28, 2010 and decided various issues regarding the SMIP for the Pennsylvania Companies. An order consistent with Chairman Cawleys Motion was entered on June 9, 2010. The companies filed a petition for reconsideration on a single portion of the order, and on August 5, 2010, the PPUC entered an order granting in part the petition for reconsideration. The Pennsylvania Companies SMIP will assess the technologies, vendors, capital cost, and potential benefits of smart meter technology during an assessment period that covers the next 24 months. The Pennsylvania Companies expect to incur approximately $29.5 million of costs during the assessment period which they expect to recover through the Smart Meter Technologies Charge rider. At the end of the assessment period, the Pennsylvania Companies will submit to the PPUC a deployment plan for the full scale deployment of smart meters. The costs to implement the SMIP could be material. However, assuming these costs satisfy a just and reasonable standard they are expected to be recovered in a rider (Smart Meter Technologies Charge Rider) which was approved when the PPUC approved the SMIP. Act 129 also requires utilities to reduce energy consumption and peak demand, with electricity consumption reduction targets of 1% by May 31, 2011, and 3% by May 31, 2013, and a peak demand reduction target of 4.5% by May 31, 2013. The Pennsylvania Companies responded by offering a wide variety of programs to residential, commercial, industrial, governmental and non profit customers through their PPUC approved EEC Plans. JCPL Rate Adjustment JCPL is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which its costs of supplying BGS to non shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG agreements, and certain other stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy and capacity. As of December 31, 2010, the accumulated deferred cost balance was a credit of approximately $37 million. To better align the recovery of expected costs, on July 26, 2010, JCPL filed a request to decrease the amount recovered for the costs incurred under the NUG agreements by $180 million annually. On February 10, 2011, the NJBPU approved a stipulation which allows the change in rates to become effective March 1, 2011. On January 18, 2011, JCPL provided information to the NJBPU regarding the proposed merger between FirstEnergy and Allegheny. A stipulation between JCPL, Board Staff and Rate Counsel was also provided. The Board reviewed the Stipulation at its January 25, 2011 meeting and issued an Order on February 10, 2011 indicating that it did not object to the transaction proceeding. 49 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGYS BUSINESS We are a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio, that operates primarily through two core business segments (see Results of Operations). Energy Delivery Services transmits and distributes electricity through our seven utility distribution companies and ATSI, serving 4.5 million customers within 36,100 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. This segment also purchases power for its POLR and default service requirements in all three states. Its revenues are primarily derived from the delivery of electricity within our service areas and the sale of electric generation service to retail customers who have not selected an alternative supplier (default service) in its Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey franchise areas. Its results reflect the commodity costs of securing electric generation from FES and from non affiliated power suppliers, the net PJM and MISO transmission expenses related to the delivery of the respective generation loads, and the deferral and amortization of certain fuel costs. The service areas of our utilities are summarized below: Company Area Served Customers Served OE Central and Northeastern Ohio 1,037,000 Penn Western Pennsylvania 160,000 CEI Northeastern Ohio 751,000 TE Northwestern Ohio 310,000 JCPL Northern, Western and East Central New Jersey 1,098,000 Met Ed Eastern Pennsylvania 553,000 Penelec Western Pennsylvania 591,000 ATSI Service areas of OE, Penn, CEI and TE Competitive Energy Services segment supplies electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey. This business segment controls 13,236 MWs of capacity and also purchases electricity to meet sales obligations. The segments net income is primarily derived from affiliated and non affiliated electric generation sales revenues less the related costs of electricity generation, including purchased power and net transmission (including congestion) and ancillary costs charged by PJM and MISO to deliver energy to the segments customers. STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK FirstEnergys vision is to be a leading regional energy provider, recognized for operational excellence, outstanding customer service and our commitment to safety; the choice for long term growth, investment value and financial strength; and a company driven by the leadership, skills, diversity and character of our employees. Our near term focus is on getting the merger closed and then successfully managing the merger integration process and capturing long term value to benefit our customers, shareholders and employees. The merger integration process is underway and is expected to create significant efficiencies and economies of scale as we share best practices across the new organization. Merger integration teams comprised of employees from both FirstEnergy and Allegheny began working in April 2010 to identify value drivers and estimate transaction benefits. The proposed merger is a natural geographic fit that would bring together complementary assets and corporate cultures and create a strong company that is well positioned for growth. Our strength is the diversity of our assets, and our strategic focus is on creating long term value through our core operations distribution operations, transmission operations and competitive generation and retail operations. In our distribution operations, we remain focused on reliability, customer service and safety, and maintaining stable earnings growth. Our combined company will be committed to meeting regulatory expectations and leveraging best practices across seven states and ten operating utilities. FirstEnergys management structure and philosophy supports local authority and decision making by maintaining a local presence, which includes regional offices for our utility operations. 50 Table of Contents Presently, our competitive generation portfolio of 13,236 MW contains a diverse mix of quality assets, including nuclear, coal, natural gas, wind and pumped storage. In response to reduced customer demand and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations, FirstEnergy announced in August 2010 operational changes at several fossil plants. Affected are nine units at four plants located on the shore of Lake Erie in Ohio, with 1,620 MW of total capacity. In September 2010, the units began operating with a minimum three day notice and in response to customer demand. These operational changes provide future flexibility regarding potential plant retirements given the current ongoing uncertainty regarding future EPA mandates or environmental legislation. (see Environmental Outlook below). We plan to make a similar evaluation of Alleghenys fossil assets once the merger is completed; however, because most of Alleghenys supercritical units have already been retrofitted with environmental control equipment, it is the bulk of their older, regulated subcritical units that are most exposed to potential regulations. In the fall of 2011, we plan to replace Davis Besses reactor vessel head, accelerating the original replacement scheduled in 2014. We expect this proactive approach to provide additional margins of safety and reliability. Construction continues on our Fremont Energy Center, which includes two natural gas combined cycle combustion turbines and a steam turbine capable of producing 544 MW of load following capacity and 163 MW of peaking capacity. We expect to complete construction of this facility by the end of 2011. On February 3, 2011, FirstEnergy and American Municipal Power, Inc. (AMP), entered into a non binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the sale of our Fremont Energy Center. The MOU provides, among other things, for the parties to engage in exclusive negotiations towards a definitive agreement expected to be executed in March, 2011, with a targeted closing date in July, 2011. In addition to Fremont, Signal Peak has been identified as a non strategic asset that could be made available for sale. FirstEnergy has identified potential post merger benefits in the competitive generation and retail business mostly related to expanding the FirstEnergy operating philosophy and model to the combined operation. These include: Economies of scale and best practices related to fuel procurement and transportation; Expanded use of fuel blending techniques; Generation asset reliability improvement; Dispatch optimization; Outage best practices; and Expansion of the retail sales growth strategy. Our strategy is to sell our own physical generation output to sales channels in close proximity to our fleet at the highest achievable margins. Our retail business remains a key component of our strategy. FES continues to expand its regional reach through retail sales by using its competitive generation assets to back POLR, governmental aggregation and direct sales commitments. Wholesale power prices remain under pressure in response to continued low gas prices, but we expect future improvements in power prices to benefit the combined fleet. 51 Table of Contents Financial Outlook We remain committed to managing our operating and capital costs in order to achieve our financial goals and commitment to shareholders. Our liquidity position remains strong, with access to more than $3.2 billion of liquidity, of which approximately $3.1 billion was available as of January 31, 2011. Capital expenditures in 2011 are projected to be $1.4 billion, compared to $1.8 billion in 2010. We intend to continue to fund our capital requirements through cash generated from operations. Positive earnings drivers for 2011 are expected to include: Increased retail revenues associated with FES POLR, governmental aggregation and direct sales; Reduced fuel expenses; and Increased margin from Signal Peak. Negative earnings drivers for 2011 are expected to include: Decreased revenues associated with the expiration of the Met Ed/Penelec partial requirements agreement with FES; Increase in net ancillary, congestion, and capacity expenses; Increased purchased power expenses; Additional planned nuclear outage for Davis Besses reactor head replacement; and Increased depreciation expenses and reduced capitalized interest, primarily associated with the Sammis plant environmental project. Distribution deliveries and non fuel, non outage OM expenses including employee benefits are expected to be essentially flat in 2011 compared to 2010. FirstEnergys $2.75 billion revolving credit facility matures in August 2012. We intend to review our revolving credit facility needs post merger and at a minimum anticipate pursuing renewal of the existing facility during the first half of 2011. In December 2010, a new federal income tax law became effective that provides for bonus depreciation tax benefits. This new law is expected to provide approximately $500 million in additional cash to FirstEnergy through 2012. We remain focused on liquidity and a strong balance sheet, as well as maintaining investment grade credit ratings. Our financial plan accelerates our goal of improving our financial strength and flexibility by significantly reducing debt by the end of 2012. In addition to cash generated from operations, we expect to deploy cash received through bonus depreciation tax benefits, as well as cash from the future sale of certain non core assets, to this debt reduction initiative. These actions are expected to improve our credit metrics over the next several years. Capital Expenditures Outlook Our capital expenditure forecast for 2011 is projected to be $1.4 billion, which represents a $393 million decrease from 2010. The main drivers of this decrease are the 2010 completion of the $1.8 billion Sammis AQC environmental compliance project and reduced spending for the Fremont facility, scheduled for completion in 2011. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for our competitive energy services business (excluding the AQC project and Fremont facility) are expected to increase slightly in 2011. The primary cause is the previously announced decision to accelerate the replacement of the Davis Besse nuclear reactor vessel head. This initiative began in 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2011. Other planned generation investments provide for maintenance of critical generation assets, deliver operational improvements to enhance reliability, and support our generation to market strategy. For our regulated operations, capital expenditures are forecasted at $730 million in 2011. Approximately $100 million has been allocated to the transmission expansion initiative, which includes projects to satisfy transmission capacity and reliability requirements, transitioning to the PJM market, and connecting new load delivery and new wholesale generation points. Expenditures for Ohio and Pennsylvania energy efficiency and advanced metering initiatives are expected to be primarily reimbursed from distribution customers and federal stimulus funding. Other investments for transmission and distribution infrastructure are designed to achieve cost effective improvements in the reliability of our service. For 2012 and 2013 we anticipate average annual baseline capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion, exclusive of any additional opportunities or future mandated spending. Planned capital initiatives promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Actual capital spending for 2010 and projected capital spending for 2011 are as follows: Capital Spending by Business Unit 2010 2011 (In millions) Energy Delivery $ 729 $ 630 Nuclear 324 320 Fossil 174 160 FES Other 21 10 Corporate 59 50 AQC 249 4 Baseline Capital Expenditures $ 1,556 $ 1,174 Fremont Facility 148 56 Burger Biomass 7 Transmission Expansion 79 100 Davis Besse Reactor Vessel Head Replacement 23 90 $ 1,813 $ 1,420 Environmental Outlook At FirstEnergy, we continually strive to enhance environmental protection and remain good stewards of our natural resources. We devote significant resources to environmental compliance efforts, and our employees share a commitment to, and accountability for, environmental performance. Our corporate focus on continuous improvement is integral to our environmental programs. We have spent more than $7 billion on environmental protection efforts since the initial passage of the Clean Air and Water Acts in the 1970s, and these investments are making a difference. Over the past five years, we have invested approximately $1.8 billion at our W.H. Sammis Plant in Stratton, Ohio, to further reduce emissions of SO2 by over 95% and NOx by at least 64%. This is one of the largest environmental retrofit projects in the nation and was recognized by Platts as the 2010 construction project of the year. Since 1990, we have reduced emissions of NOx by more than 83%, SO2 by more than 82%, and mercury by about 60%. Also, our CO2 emission rate, in pounds of CO2 per kWh, has dropped by 19% during this period. Emission rates for our power plants are lower than the regional average. By the end of 2011, we expect approximately 70% of our generation fleet to be non emitting or low emitting generation. Over 52% of our coal fired generating fleet will have full NOx and SO2 equipment controls thus significantly decreasing our exposure to future environmental requirements. One of the key issues facing our company and industry is global climate change related mandates. Lawmakers at the state and federal levels are exploring and implementing a wide range of responses. We believe our generation fleet is very well positioned to compete in a carbon constrained economy. In addition, we believe that upon consummation of the proposed merger with Allegheny, our competitive position will be enhanced with an even more diverse mix of fully scrubbed fossil generation, non emitting nuclear and renewable generation, including large scale storage. 53 Table of Contents We have taken aggressive steps over the past two decades that have increased our generating capacity without adding to overall CO2 emissions. For example, since 1990, we have reconfigured our fleet by retiring nearly 1,000 MWs of older, coal based generation and adding more than 1,800 MWs of non emitting nuclear capacity. Through these and other actions, we have increased our generating capacity by nearly 15% over the same period while avoiding some 350 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. Today, nearly 40% of our electricity is generated without emitting CO2 a key advantage that will help us meet the challenge of future governmental climate change mandates. And with recent announcements in 2009, including the expanded use of renewable energy, energy storage and natural gas, our CO2 emission rate will decline even further in the future. We have taken a leadership role in pursuing new ventures and testing and developing new technologies that show promise in achieving additional reductions in CO2 emissions. These include: Sales of over 1 million MWH per year of wind generation. Testing of CO2 sequestration to gain a better understanding of the potential for geological storage of CO2. Supporting afforestation growing forests on non forested land and other efforts designed to remove CO2 from the environment. Reducing emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) by nearly 15 metric tons, resulting in an equivalent reduction of nearly 315,000 metric tons of CO2, through the EPAs SF6 Emissions Reduction Partnership for Electric Power Systems. Supporting research to develop and evaluate cost effective sorbent materials for CO2 capture including work by Powerspan at the Burger Plant, The University of Akron and the EPRI. We remain actively engaged in the federal and state debate over future environmental requirements and legislation, especially those dealing with global climate change, hazardous air pollutants, coal combustion residues and water effluent discharges. We are committed to working with policy makers and regulators to develop fair and reasonable requirements, with the goal of reducing emissions while minimizing the economic impact on our customers. Due to the significant uncertainty as to the final form or timing of any such legislation and regulation at both the federal and state levels, we are unable to determine the potential impact and risks associated with future emissions requirements. We also have a long history of supporting research in distributed energy resources. Distributed energy resources include fuel cells, solar and wind systems or energy storage technologies located close to the customer or direct control of customer loads to provide alternatives or enhancements to the traditional electric power system. We are testing the worlds largest utility scale fuel cell system at our Eastlake power plant to determine its feasibility for augmenting generating capacity during summer peak use periods. Through a partnership with EPRI, the Cuyahoga Valley National Park, the Department of Defense and Case Western Reserve University, two solid oxide fuel cells were installed as part of a test program to explore the technology and the environmental benefits of distributed generation. We are also evaluating the impact of distributed energy storage on the distribution system through analysis and field demonstrations of advanced battery technologies. FirstEnergys EasyGreen load management program utilizes two way communication capability with customers non critical equipment such as air conditioners in New Jersey and Pennsylvania to help manage peak loading on the electric distribution system. FirstEnergy has also made an online interactive energy efficiency tool, Home Energy Analyzer, available for its customers to help achieve electricity use reduction goals. 54 Table of Contents RISKS AND CHALLENGES In executing our strategy, we face a number of industry and enterprise risks and challenges, including: risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment; changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profit margins; we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against; the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results; financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs; our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies; nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning; capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of the decommissioning trust fund, pension fund assets and other trust funds which then could require significant additional funding; we could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by NERC/FERC or changes in the rules of organized markets and the states in which we do business; we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. If transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered; disruptions in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities and impact financial results; temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins; we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel; increases in customer electric rates and economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts; the goodwill of one or more of our operating subsidiaries may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts; we face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements; significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity; our business is subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to our reputation and or results of operations; acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business; capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters; changes in technology may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive; 55 Table of Contents we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions; ability of certain FirstEnergy companies to meet their obligations to other FirstEnergy companies; our pending merger with Allegheny may not achieve its intended results; upon consummation of the pending merger we will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial results; once the pending merger is closed the combined company will have a higher percentage of coal fired generation capacity compared to FirstEnergys previous generation mix. As a result, FirstEnergy may be exposed to greater risk from regulations of coal and coal combustion by products than it faced prior to the merger; complex and changing government regulations could have a negative impact on our results of operations; regulatory changes in the electric industry, including a reversal, discontinuance or delay of the present trend toward competitive markets, could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations; the prospect of rising rates could prompt legislative or regulatory action to restrict or control such rate increases; this in turn could create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect the utilities ability to recover their costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements; our profitability is impacted by our affiliated companies continued authorization to sell power at market based rates; there are uncertainties relating to our participation in RTOs; a significant delay in or challenges to various elements of ATSIs consolidation into PJM, including but not limited to, the intervention of parties to the regulatory proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition; energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results; our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements; the EPA is conducting NSR investigations at a number of our generating plants, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition; costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect cash flow and profitability; the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows; remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities; availability and cost of emission credits could materially impact our costs of operations; mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs; we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities; the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the NRC; future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported financial results; 56 Table of Contents increases in taxes and fees; interest rates and or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, our ability to access capital and our requirement to post collateral; we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition; we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid; disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition; and questions regarding the soundness of financial institutions or counterparties could adversely affect us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The financial results discussed below include revenues and expenses from transactions among FirstEnergys business segments. A reconciliation of segment financial results is provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Earnings available to FirstEnergy by major business segment were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Earnings (Loss) By Business Segment: Energy delivery services $ 607 $ 435 $ 916 $ 172 $ (481 ) Competitive energy services 258 517 472 (259 ) 45 Other and reconciling adjustments* (81 ) 54 (46 ) (135 ) 100 Total $ 784 $ 1,006 $ 1,342 $ (222 ) $ (336 ) Basic Earnings Per Share $ 2.58 $ 3.31 $ 4.41 $ (0.73 ) $ (1.10 ) Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 2.57 $ 3.29 $ 4.38 $ (0.72 ) $ (1.09 ) * Consists primarily of interest expense related to holding company debt, corporate support services revenues and expenses, noncontrolling interests and the elimination of intersegment transactions. 57 Table of Contents Summary of Results of Operations 2010 Compared with 2009 Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2010 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 9,271 $ 3,252 $ $ 12,523 Other 542 292 (92 ) 742 Internal* 139 2,301 (2,366 ) 74 Total Revenues 9,952 5,845 (2,458 ) 13,339 Expenses: Fuel 1,440 (8 ) 1,432 Purchased power 5,266 1,724 (2,366 ) 4,624 Other operating expenses 1,492 1,436 (78 ) 2,850 Provision for depreciation 451 254 41 746 Amortization of regulatory assets 722 722 Deferral of new regulatory assets Impairment of long lived assets 384 384 General taxes 653 113 10 776 Total Expenses 8,584 5,351 (2,401 ) 11,534 Operating Income 1,368 494 (57 ) 1,805 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36 ) 117 Interest expense (496 ) (221 ) (128 ) (845 ) Capitalized interest 5 92 68 165 Total Other Expense (389 ) (78 ) (96 ) (563 ) Income Before Income Taxes 979 416 (153 ) 1,242 Income taxes 372 158 (48 ) 482 Net Income (Loss) 607 258 (105 ) 760 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24 ) (24 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 607 $ 258 $ (81 ) $ 784 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 58 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2009 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 10,585 $ 1,447 $ $ 12,032 Other 559 447 (82 ) 924 Internal* 2,843 (2,826 ) 17 Total Revenues 11,144 4,737 (2,908 ) 12,973 Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153 Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826 ) 4,730 Other operating expenses 1,424 1,357 (84 ) 2,697 Provision for depreciation 445 270 21 736 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,155 1,155 Deferral of new regulatory assets (136 ) (136 ) Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes 641 108 4 753 Total Expenses 10,089 3,890 (2,885 ) 11,094 Operating Income 1,055 847 (23 ) 1,879 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 139 121 (56 ) 204 Interest expense (472 ) (166 ) (340 ) (978 ) Capitalized interest 3 60 67 130 Total Other Income (Expense) (330 ) 15 (329 ) (644 ) Income Before Income Taxes 725 862 (352 ) 1,235 Income taxes 290 345 (390 ) 245 Net Income 435 517 38 990 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16 ) (16 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 435 $ 517 $ 54 $ 1,006 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, Internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 59 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Changes Between 2010 and 2009 Financial Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy Results Increase (Decrease) Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ (1,314 ) $ 1,805 $ $ 491 Other (17 ) (155 ) (10 ) (182 ) Internal* 139 (542 ) 460 57 Total Revenues (1,192 ) 1,108 450 366 Expenses: Fuel 287 (8 ) 279 Purchased power (1,294 ) 728 460 (106 ) Other operating expenses 68 79 6 153 Provision for depreciation 6 (16 ) 20 10 Amortization of regulatory assets (433 ) (433 ) Deferral of new regulatory assets 136 136 Impairment of long lived assets 378 378 General taxes 12 5 6 23 Total Expenses (1,505 ) 1,461 484 440 Operating Income 313 (353 ) (34 ) (74 ) Other Income (Expense): Investment income (37 ) (70 ) 20 (87 ) Interest expense (24 ) (55 ) 212 133 Capitalized interest 2 32 1 35 Total Other Expense (59 ) (93 ) 233 81 Income Before Income Taxes 254 (446 ) 199 7 Income taxes 82 (187 ) 342 237 Net Income 172 (259 ) (143 ) (230 ) Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (8 ) (8 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 172 $ (259 ) $ (135 ) $ (222 ) * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. Energy Delivery Services 2010 Compared to 2009 Net income increased $172 million to $607 million in 2010 compared to $435 million in 2009, primarily due to CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment in 2009, partially offset by increases in other operating expenses. Lower generation revenues were offset by lower purchased power expenses. Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Distribution services $ 3,629 $ 3,419 $ 210 Generation sales: Retail 4,456 5,764 (1,308 ) Wholesale 841 752 89 Total generation sales 5,297 6,516 (1,219 ) Transmission 833 1,028 (195 ) Other 193 181 12 Total Revenues $ 9,952 $ 11,144 $ (1,192 ) 60 Table of Contents The increase in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: Electric Distribution KWH Deliveries Residential 5.9 % Commercial 2.8 % Industrial 8.4 % Total Distribution KWH Deliveries 5.6 % Higher deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflect increased weather related usage due to a 70% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. In the industrial sector, KWH deliveries increased primarily to major automotive customers (16%), refinery customers (7%) and steel customers (38%). The increase in distribution service revenues also reflects the Pennsylvania Companies recovery of the Pennsylvania EEC as approved by the PPUC in March 2010 and the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio, partially offset by a reduction in the transition rate for CEI effective June 1, 2009. The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1.2 billion decrease in generation revenues in 2010 compared to 2009: Increase Source of Change in Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 24.9% decrease in sales volumes $ (1,438 ) Change in prices 130 (1,308 ) Wholesale: Effect of 8.4% decrease in sales volumes (64 ) Change in prices 153 89 Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $ (1,219 ) The decrease in retail generation sales volumes was primarily due to an increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. Total generation KWH provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total KWH deliveries by the Ohio Companies increased to 62% in 2010 from 17% in 2009. The decrease in volumes was partially offset by increases in generation revenues due to higher rates from the May 2009 Ohio CBP that include the recovery of transmission costs. The increase in wholesale generation revenues reflected higher prices and increased capacity sales for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $195 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies transmission tariff effective June 1, 2009; transmission costs are now a component of the cost of generation established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Expenses Total expenses decreased by $1.5 billion due to the following: Purchased power costs were $1.3 billion lower in 2010, largely due to lower volume requirements. The decrease in volumes from non affiliates resulted principally from the termination of a third party supply contract for Met Ed and Penelec in January 2010 and from the increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. The decrease in purchases from FES also resulted from the increase in customer shopping in Ohio. An increase in purchased power unit costs from non affiliates in 2010 resulted from higher capacity prices in the PJM market for Met Ed and Penelec. A decrease in unit costs for purchases from FES was principally due to the lower weighted average unit price per KWH established under the May 2009 CBP auction for the Ohio Companies effective June 1, 2009. 61 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $ 619 Change due to decreased volumes (1,489 ) (870 ) Purchases from FES: Change due to decreased unit costs (257 ) Change due to decreased volumes (250 ) (507 ) Decrease in costs deferred 83 Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $ (1,294 ) Transmission expenses increased $70 million primarily due to higher PJM network transmission expenses and congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by lower MISO network transmission expenses that are reflected in the generation rate established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Met Ed and Penelec defer or amortize the difference between revenues from their transmission rider and transmission costs incurred with no material effect on earnings. Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $34 million due to lower pension and OPEB expenses, lower payroll costs resulting from staffing reductions implemented in 2009, and restructuring expenses recognized in 2009. Expenses for economic development commitments related to the Ohio Companies ESP were lower by $11 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Depreciation expense increased $6 million due to property additions since 2009. Amortization of regulatory assets decreased $433 million due primarily to the absence of the $216 million impairment of CEIs regulatory assets in 2009, reduced net MISO and PJM transmission cost amortization and reduced CTC amortization for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by increased amortization associated with the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio and a $35 million regulatory asset impairment in 2010 associated with the Ohio Companies ESP. The deferral of new regulatory assets decreased $136 million in 2010 due to CEIs purchased power cost deferrals that ended in early 2009. General taxes increased $12 million principally due to a benefit relating to Ohio KWH excise taxes that was recognized in 2009 and applicable to prior years. Other Expense Other expense increased $59 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income ($37 million) and higher net interest expense associated with debt issuances by the Utilities during 2009 ($22 million). Competitive Energy Services 2010 Compared to 2009 Net income decreased to $258 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $384 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins. 62 Table of Contents Revenues Total revenues increased $1,108 million in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to an increase in direct and government aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies, other wholesale sales and the reduced OVEC participation interest sale in 2010. The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Direct and Government Aggregation $ 2,494 $ 779 $ 1,715 POLR 2,436 2,863 (427 ) Wholesale 550 632 (82 ) Transmission 77 73 4 RECs 74 17 57 Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167 ) Other 129 121 8 Total Revenues $ 5,845 $ 4,737 $ 1,108 The increase in direct and government aggregation revenues of $1.7 billion resulted from increased revenue from the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new government aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to approximately 600,000 customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009. The decrease in POLR revenues of $427 million was due to lower sales volumes and lower unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to the Pennsylvania Companies resulted from FES supplying Met Ed and Penelec with volumes previously supplied through a third party contract and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009. Other wholesale revenues decreased $82 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Direct and Government Aggregation (Decrease) (In millions) Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $ 1,083 Change in prices (82 ) 1,001 Government Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 704 Change in prices 10 714 Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $ 1,715 63 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Decrease (In millions) POLR: Effect of 5.3% decrease in sales volumes $ (153 ) Change in prices (274 ) (427 ) Other Wholesale: Effect of 26.5% decrease in sales volumes (105 ) Change in prices 23 (82 ) Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $ (509 ) Expenses Total expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2010 due to the following factors: Fuel costs increased $287 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased volumes consumed ($217 million) and higher unit prices ($70 million). The higher volumes consumed in 2010 were due to increased sales to direct and government aggregation customers, improved economic conditions and improved generating unit availability. The increase in unit prices was due primarily to increased coal transportation costs and to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010. Purchased power costs increased $728 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec. Fossil operating costs decreased $12 million due primarily to lower labor and professional and contractor costs, which were partially offset by reduced gains from the sale of emission allowances and excess coal. Nuclear operating costs decreased $21 million due primarily to lower labor, consulting and contractor costs partially offset by increased nuclear property insurance and employee benefit costs. The year 2010 had one less refueling outage and fewer extended outages than the same period of 2009. Transmission expenses increased $25 million due primarily to increased costs in MISO of $170 million from higher network, ancillary and congestion costs, partially offset by lower PJM transmission expenses of $145 million due to lower congestion costs. Depreciation expense decreased $16 million principally due to reduced depreciable property associated with the impairments described below and the sale of the Sumpter plant in early 2010. General taxes increased $5 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes. Other expenses increased $465 million primarily due to a $384 million impairment charge ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units in response to the continued slow economy, lower demand for electricity and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Expenses were also increased due to the significant growth in FES retail business professional and contractor expenses, billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees. Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $93 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income ($66) million and a $23 million increase in net interest expense from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010. 64 Table of Contents Other 2010 Compared to 2009 Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in a $135 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease resulted primarily from increased income tax expense ($342 million) due in part to the absence of favorable tax settlements that occurred in 2009 ($200 million), partially offset by the absence of 2009 debt retirement costs in connection with the tender offer for holding company debt ($90 million), decreased interest expense associated with the debt retirement ($53 million), increased investment income ($20 million) and decreased depreciation ($20 million). Summary of Results of Operations 2009 Compared with 2008 Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2009 were as follows: Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2009 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 10,585 $ 1,447 $ $ 12,032 Other 559 447 (82 ) 924 Internal* 2,843 (2,826 ) 17 Total Revenues 11,144 4,737 (2,908 ) 12,973 Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153 Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826 ) 4,730 Other operating expenses 1,424 1,357 (84 ) 2,697 Provision for depreciation 445 270 21 736 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,155 1,155 Deferral of new regulatory assets (136 ) (136 ) Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes 641 108 4 753 Total Expenses 10,089 3,890 (2,885 ) 11,094 Operating Income 1,055 847 (23 ) 1,879 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 139 121 (56 ) 204 Interest expense (472 ) (166 ) (340 ) (978 ) Capitalized interest 3 60 67 130 Total Other Expense (330 ) 15 (329 ) (644 ) Income Before Income Taxes 725 862 (352 ) 1,235 Income taxes 290 345 (390 ) 245 Net Income 435 517 38 990 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16 ) (16 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 435 $ 517 $ 54 $ 1,006 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 65 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2008 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 11,360 $ 1,333 $ $ 12,693 Other 708 238 (12 ) 934 Internal 2,968 (2,968 ) Total Revenues 12,068 4,539 (2,980 ) 13,627 Expenses: Fuel 2 1,338 1,340 Purchased power 6,480 779 (2,968 ) 4,291 Other operating expenses 2,022 1,142 (119 ) 3,045 Provision for depreciation 417 243 17 677 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,053 1,053 Deferral of new regulatory assets (316 ) (316 ) Impairment of long lived assets General taxes 646 109 23 778 Total Expenses 10,304 3,611 (3,047 ) 10,868 Operating Income 1,764 928 67 2,759 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 171 (34 ) (78 ) 59 Interest expense (411 ) (152 ) (191 ) (754 ) Capitalized interest 3 44 5 52 Total Other Expense (237 ) (142 ) (264 ) (643 ) Income Before Income Taxes 1,527 786 (197 ) 2,116 Income taxes 611 314 (148 ) 777 Net Income 916 472 (49 ) 1,339 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3 ) (3 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 916 $ 472 $ (46 ) $ 1,342 66 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Changes Between 2009 and 2008 Financial Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy Results Increase (Decrease) Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ (775 ) $ 114 $ $ (661 ) Other (149 ) 209 (70 ) (10 ) Internal* (125 ) 142 17 Total Revenues (924 ) 198 72 (654 ) Expenses: Fuel (2 ) (185 ) (187 ) Purchased power 80 217 142 439 Other operating expenses (598 ) 215 35 (348 ) Provision for depreciation 28 27 4 59 Amortization of regulatory assets 102 102 Deferral of new regulatory assets 180 180 Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes (5 ) (1 ) (19 ) (25 ) Total Expenses (215 ) 279 162 226 Operating Income (709 ) (81 ) (90 ) (880 ) Other Income (Expense): Investment income (32 ) 155 22 145 Interest expense (61 ) (14 ) (149 ) (224 ) Capitalized interest 16 62 78 Total Other Expense (93 ) 157 (65 ) (1 ) Income Before Income Taxes (802 ) 76 (155 ) (881 ) Income taxes (321 ) 31 (242 ) (532 ) Net Income (481 ) 45 87 (349 ) Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (13 ) (13 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ (481 ) $ 45 $ 100 $ (336 ) * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. Energy Delivery Services 2009 Compared to 2008 Net income decreased $481 million to $435 million in 2009 compared to $916 million in 2008, primarily due to lower revenues, increased purchased power costs and decreased deferrals of new regulatory assets, partially offset by lower other operating expenses. Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Distribution services $ 3,420 $ 3,882 $ (462 ) Generation sales: Retail 5,760 5,768 (8 ) Wholesale 752 962 (210 ) Total generation sales 6,512 6,730 (218 ) Transmission 1,023 1,268 (245 ) Other 189 188 1 Total Revenues $ 11,144 $ 12,068 $ (924 ) 67 Table of Contents The decrease in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: Electric Distribution KWH Deliveries Residential (3.3 )% Commercial (4.4 )% Industrial (14.7 )% Total Distribution KWH Deliveries (7.3 )% The lower revenues from distribution services were driven primarily by the reductions in sales volume associated with milder weather and economic conditions. The decrease in residential deliveries reflected reduced weather related usage compared to 2008, as cooling degree days and heating degree days decreased by 17% and 1%, respectively. The decreases in distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers were primarily due to economic conditions in FirstEnergys service territory. In the industrial sector, KWH deliveries declined to major automotive customers by 20.2% and to steel customers by 36.2%. Reduced revenues from transition charges for OE and TE that ceased with the full recovery of related costs effective January 1, 2009 and the transition rate reduction for CEI effective June 1, 2009, were offset by PUCO approved distribution rate increases (see Regulatory Matters Ohio). The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $218 million decrease in generation revenues in 2009 compared to 2008: Increase Source of Change in Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 10.5% decrease in sales volumes $ (603 ) Change in prices 595 (8 ) Wholesale: Effect of 14.9% decrease in sales volumes (143 ) Change in prices (67 ) (210 ) Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $ (218 ) The decrease in retail generation sales volumes from 2008 was primarily due to the weakened economic conditions and milder weather described above. Retail generation prices increased for JCPL and Penn during 2009 as a result of their power procurement processes. For the Ohio Companies, average prices increased primarily due to the higher fuel cost recovery riders that were effective from January through May 2009. In addition, effective June 1, 2009, the Ohio Companies transmission tariff ended and transmission costs became a component of the generation rate established under the CBP. Wholesale generation sales decreased principally as a result of JCPL selling less available power from NUGs due to the termination of a NUG purchase contract in October 2008. The decrease in wholesale prices reflected lower spot market prices in PJM. Transmission revenues decreased $245 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies current transmission tariff and lower MISO and PJM transmission revenues, partially offset by higher transmission rates for Met Ed and Penelec resulting from the annual updates to their TSC riders (see Regulatory Matters). The difference between transmission revenues accrued and transmission costs incurred are deferred, resulting in no material effect on current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased by $215 million due to the following: Purchased power costs were $80 million higher in 2009 due to higher unit costs, partially offset by an increase in volumes combined with higher NUG cost deferrals. The increased purchased power costs from non affiliates was due primarily to increased volumes for the Ohio Companies as a result of their CBP, partially offset by lower volumes for Met Ed and Penelec due to the termination of a third party supply contract in December 2008 and for JCPL due to the termination of a NUG purchase contract in October 2008. Decreased purchased power costs from FES were principally due to lower volumes for the Ohio Companies following their CBP, partially offset by increased volumes for Met Ed and Penelec under their fixed price partial requirements PSA with FES. Higher unit costs from FES, which included a component for transmission under the Ohio Companies CBP, partially offset the decreased volumes. 68 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the sources of changes in purchased power costs: Increase Source of Change in Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $ 58 Change due to increased volumes 312 370 Purchases from FES: Change due to increased unit costs 583 Change due to decreased volumes (725 ) (142 ) Increase in NUG costs deferred (148 ) Net Increase in Purchased Power Costs $ 80 Transmission expenses were lower by $481 million in 2009, reflecting the change in the transmission tariff under the Ohio Companies CBP, reduced transmission volumes and lower congestion costs. Intersegment cost reimbursements related to the Ohio Companies nuclear generation leasehold interests increased by $114 million in 2009. Prior to 2009, a portion of OEs and TEs leasehold costs were recovered through customer transition charges. Effective January 1, 2009, these leasehold costs are reimbursed from the competitive energy services segment. Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $39 million reflecting changes to Energy Deliverys organizational and compensation structure and increased resources dedicated to capital projects, partially offset by higher pension expenses resulting from reduced pension plan asset values at the end of 2008. Storm related costs were $16 million lower in 2009 compared to the prior year. An increase in other operating expenses of $40 million resulted from the recognition of economic development and energy efficiency obligations in accordance with the PUCO approved ESP. Uncollectible expenses were higher by $12 million in 2009 principally due to increased bankruptcies. A $102 million increase in the amortization of regulatory assets was due primarily to the ESP related impairment of CEIs regulatory assets ($216 million) and MISO/PJM transmission cost amortization in 2009, partially offset by the cessation of transition cost amortization for OE and TE. A $180 million decrease in the deferral of new regulatory assets was principally due to the absence in 2009 of PJM transmission cost deferrals and RCP distribution cost deferrals, partially offset by the PUCO approved deferral of purchased power costs for CEI. Depreciation expense increased $28 million due to property additions since 2008. General taxes decreased $5 million due primarily to lower revenue related taxes in 2009. Other Expense Other expense increased $93 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Lower investment income of $32 million resulted primarily from repaid notes receivable from affiliates. Higher interest expense (net of capitalized interest) of $61 million resulted from a net increase in debt of $1.8 billion by the Utilities and ATSI during 2009. Competitive Energy Services 2009 Compared to 2008 Net income increased to $517 million in 2009 compared to $472 million in the same period of 2008. The increase in net income includes FGCOs gain from the sale of a 9% participation interest in OVEC, increased sales margins, and an increase in investment income, offset by a mark to market adjustment relating to purchased power contracts for delivery in 2010 and 2011. 69 Table of Contents Revenues Total revenues increased $198 million in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This increase primarily resulted from the OVEC sale and higher unit prices on affiliated generation sales to the Ohio Companies and non affiliated customers, partially offset by lower sales volumes. The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2009 2008 (Decrease) (In millions) Non Affiliated Generation Sales: Retail $ 778 $ 615 $ 163 Wholesale 669 718 (49 ) Total Non Affiliated Generation Sales 1,447 1,333 114 Affiliated Generation Sales 2,843 2,968 (125 ) Transmission 73 150 (77 ) Sale of OVEC participation interest 252 252 Other 122 88 34 Total Revenues $ 4,737 $ 4,539 $ 198 The increase in non affiliated retail revenues of $163 million resulted from increased revenue in both the PJM and MISO markets. The increase in MISO retail revenue is primarily the result of the acquisition of new customers, higher unit prices and the inclusion of the transmission related component in retail rates previously reported as transmission revenues. The increase in PJM retail revenue resulted from the acquisition of new customers, higher sales volumes and unit prices. The acquisition of new customers in MISO is primarily due to new government aggregation contracts with 60 area communities in Ohio that will provide discounted generation prices to approximately 580,000 residential and small commercial customers. Lower non affiliated wholesale revenues of $49 million resulted from decreased sales volumes in PJM partially offset by increased capacity prices, increased sales volumes in MISO, and favorable settlements on hedged transactions. The lower affiliated company wholesale generation revenues of $125 million were due to lower sales volumes to the Ohio Companies combined with lower unit prices to the Pennsylvania companies, partially offset by higher unit prices to the Ohio Companies and increased sales volumes to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Ohio Companies reflected the results of the power procurement processes in the first half of 2009 (see Regulatory Matters Ohio). The higher sales to the Pennsylvania Companies were due to increased Met Ed and Penelec generation sales requirements supplied by FES partially offset by lower sales to Penn due to decreased default service requirements in 2009 compared to 2008. Additionally, while unit prices for each of the Pennsylvania Companies did not change, the mix of sales among the companies caused the overall price to decline. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Non Affiliated Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 8.6% increase in sales volumes $ 53 Change in prices 110 163 Wholesale: Effect of 13.9% decrease in sales volumes (100 ) Change in prices 51 (49 ) Net Increase in Non Affiliated Generation Revenues $ 114 70 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Affiliated Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 36.3% decrease in sales volumes $ (837 ) Change in prices 645 (192 ) Wholesale: Effect of 14.7% increase in sales volumes 97 Change in prices (30 ) 67 Net Decrease in Affiliated Generation Revenues $ (125 ) Transmission revenues decreased $77 million due primarily to reduced loads following the expiration of the government aggregation programs in Ohio at the end of 2008 and to the inclusion of the transmission related component in the retail rates in mid 2009. In 2009 FGCO sold 9% of its participation interest in OVEC resulting in a $252 million ($158 million, after tax) gain. Other revenue increased $28 million primarily due to income associated with NGCs acquisition of equity interests in the Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 leases. Expenses Total expenses increased $279 million in 2009 due to the following factors: Fossil Fuel costs decreased $198 million due primarily to lower generation volumes ($307 million) partially offset by higher unit prices ($109 million). Nuclear Fuel costs increased $13 million as higher unit prices ($26 million) were partially offset by lower generation ($13 million). Purchased power costs increased $217 million due to a mark to market adjustment ($205 million) relating to purchased power contracts for delivery in 2010 and 2011 and higher unit prices ($33 million) that resulted primarily from higher capacity costs, partially offset by lower volumes purchased ($21 million) due to FGCOs reduced participation interest in OVEC. Fossil operating costs decreased $24 million due primarily to a reduction in contractor, material and labor costs and increased resources dedicated to capital projects, partially offset by higher employee benefits. Nuclear operating costs increased $45 million due to an additional refueling outage during the 2009 period and higher employee benefits, partially offset by lower labor costs. Transmission expense increased $121 million due to transmission services charges related to the load serving entity obligations in MISO, increased net congestion and higher loss expenses in MISO and PJM. Other expense increased $78 million due primarily to increased intersegment billings for leasehold costs from the Ohio Companies and higher pension costs. Depreciation expense increased $27 million due to NGCs increased ownership interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2 and Perry. Other Income (Expense) Total other income in 2009 was $15 million compared to total other expense in 2008 of $142 million, resulting primarily from a $155 million increase from gains on the sale of nuclear decommissioning trust investments. During 2009, the majority of the nuclear decommissioning trust holdings were converted to more closely align with the liability being funded. Other 2009 Compared to 2008 Our financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items resulted in a $100 million increase in net income in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase resulted primarily from $200 million of favorable tax settlements, offset by debt redemption costs of $90 million and by the absence of the gain from the sale of telecommunication assets ($19 million, net of taxes) in 2008. 71 Table of Contents POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS FirstEnergy provides a noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of our employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. We also provide health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles, and co payments, upon retirement to employees hired prior to January 1, 2005, their dependents, and under certain circumstances, their survivors. Benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date. Adverse market conditions during 2008 increased 2009 costs, which were partially offset by the effects of a $500 million voluntary cash pension contribution and an OPEB plan amendment in 2009. Recovering market conditions and greater returns on higher asset levels decreased postretirement benefit expense in 2010, partially offset by a full year of realization on the reduction in benefit liability resulting from the OPEB plan amendment in 2009. Pension and OPEB expenses are included in various cost categories and have contributed to cost increases discussed above for 2010. The following table reflects the portion of qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB costs that were charged to expense in the three years ended December 31, 2010: Postretirement Benefits Expense (Credits) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Pension $ 174 $ 185 $ (23 ) OPEB (90 ) (40 ) (37 ) Total $ 84 $ 145 $ (60 ) As of December 31, 2010, our pension plan was underfunded and we currently anticipate that an additional voluntary cash contribution of $250 million will be made in 2011. The overall actual investment result during 2010 was a gain of 10% compared to an assumed 8.5% return. Based on discount rates of 5.50% for pension, 5.00% for OPEB and an estimated return on assets of 8.25%, our 2011 pre tax net periodic postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $92 million. SUPPLY PLAN Regulated Commodity Sourcing The Utilities have a default service obligation to provide power to non shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service territory. JCPLs default service supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. The Ohio Companies and Penns default service supplies are provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO and PPUC, respectively. The default service supply for Met Ed and Penelec was secured through a FERC approved agreement with FES through 2010, transitioning to a PPUC approved competitive procurement process in 2011. If any supplier fails to deliver power to any one of the Utilities service areas, the Utility serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as a POLR. Unregulated Commodity Sourcing FES provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale of electricity and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale competitive supply arrangements. FES controls 13,236 MW of installed generating capacity. FES supplies the power requirements of its competitive load serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary owned generation, non affiliated contracts and spot market transactions. FES has retail and wholesale competitive load serving obligations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey serving both affiliated and non affiliated companies. FES provides energy products and services to customers under various POLR, shopping, competitive bid and non affiliated contractual obligations. In 2010, FES generation was used to serve two primary obligations affiliated companies utilized approximately 43% of FES total generation and retail customers utilized approximately 43% of FES total generation. Geographically, approximately 60% of FES obligation is located in the MISO market area and 40% is located in the PJM market area. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1 billion available to fund investments, operations and capital expenditures. To fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2011 and beyond, FirstEnergy may rely on internal and external sources of funds. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short term borrowings. Long term cash needs may be met through issuances of debt and or equity securities. 72 Table of Contents FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergys business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. During 2011, FirstEnergy expects to satisfy these requirements with a combination of internal cash from operations and external funds from the capital markets as market conditions warrant. FirstEnergy also expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long term capital markets. A material adverse change in operations, or in the availability of external financing sources, could impact FirstEnergys ability to fund current liquidity and capital resource requirements. To mitigate risk, FirstEnergys business model stresses financial discipline and a strong focus on execution. Major elements of this business model include the expectation of: projected cash from operations, opportunities for favorable long term earnings growth as the transition to competitive generation markets is completed, operational excellence, business plan execution, well positioned generation fleet, no speculative trading operations, appropriate long term commodity hedging positions, manageable capital expenditure program, adequately funded pension plan, minimal near term maturities of existing long term debt, commitment to a secure dividend (dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations) and a successful merger integration. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys net deficit in working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was principally due to short term borrowings and the classification of certain variable interest rate PCRBs as currently payable long term debt. Currently payable long term debt as of December 31, 2010, included the following (in millions): Currently Payable Long term Debt PCRBs supported by bank LOCs (1) $ 827 FGCO and NGC PCRBs (1) 191 Penelec unsecured PCRBs 25 FirstEnergy Corp. unsecured note 250 NGC collateralized lease obligation bonds 50 Sinking fund requirements 33 FES term loan 100 Other obligations 10 $ 1,486 (1) Interest rate mode permits individual debt holders to put the respective debt back to the issuer prior to maturity. Short Term Borrowings FirstEnergy had approximately $700 million of short term borrowings as of December 31, 2010 and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. FirstEnergys available liquidity as of January 31, 2011, is summarized in the following table: Available Company Type Maturity Commitment Liquidity (In millions) FirstEnergy(1) Revolving Aug. 2012 $ 2,750 $ 2,245 FES Term loan Mar. 2011 100 Ohio and Pennsylvania Companies Receivables financing Various (2) 395 237 Subtotal $ 3,245 $ 2,482 Cash 668 Total $ 3,245 $ 3,150 (1) FirstEnergy Corp. and subsidiary borrowers. (2) Ohio $250 million matures March 30, 2011; Pennsylvania $145 million matures June 17, 2011 with optional extension terms. On October 22, 2010, Signal Peak and Global Rail, as borrowers, entered into a $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility. The loan proceeds were used to repay $258 million of notes payable to FirstEnergy, including $9 million of interest and $63 million of bank loans that were scheduled to mature on November 16, 2010. Additional proceeds were used for general company purposes, including an $11 million repayment of a third party sellers note. As discussed below under Guarantees and Other Assurances, FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II LLC, the entities that share ownership with FEV in the borrowers, have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the facility. 73 Table of Contents Revolving Credit Facility FirstEnergy has the capability to request an increase in the total commitments available under the $2.75 billion revolving credit facility (included in the borrowing capability table above) up to a maximum of $3.25 billion, subject to the discretion of each lender to provide additional commitments. A total of 25 banks participate in the facility, with no one bank having more than 7.3% of the total commitment. Commitments under the facility are available until August 24, 2012, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the borrowers, to an unlimited number of additional one year extensions. Generally, borrowings under the facility must be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each borrower are subject to a specified sub limit, as well as applicable regulatory and other limitations. The following table summarizes the borrowing sub limits for each borrower under the facility, as well as the limitations on short term indebtedness applicable to each borrower under current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations as of December 31, 2010: Revolving Regulatory and Credit Facility Other Short Term Borrower Sub Limit Debt Limitations (In millions) FirstEnergy $ 2,750 $ (1) FES 1,000 (1) OE 500 500 Penn 50 34 (2) CEI 250 (3) 500 TE 250 (3) 500 JCPL 425 411 (2) Met Ed 250 300 (2) Penelec 250 300 (2) ATSI 50 (4) 100 (1) No regulatory approvals, statutory or charter limitations applicable. (2) Excluding amounts that may be borrowed under the regulated companies money pool. (3) Borrowing sub limits for CEI and TE may be increased to up to $500 million by delivering notice to the administrative agent that such borrower has senior unsecured debt ratings of at least BBB by SP and Baa2 by Moodys. (4) The borrowing sub limit for ATSI may be increased up to $100 million by delivering notice to the administrative agent that ATSI has received regulatory approval to have short term borrowings up to the same amount. Under the revolving credit facility, borrowers may request the issuance of LOCs expiring up to one year from the date of issuance. The stated amount of outstanding LOCs will count against total commitments available under the facility and against the applicable borrowers borrowing sub limit. The revolving credit facility contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65%, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt to total capitalization ratios (as defined under the revolving credit facility) were as follows: Borrower FirstEnergy 60.6 % FES 52.6 % OE 54.1 % Penn 37.7 % CEI 57.1 % TE 57.6 % JCPL 34.6 % Met Ed 41.5 % Penelec 54.7 % ATSI 48.3 % 74 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy could issue additional debt of approximately $3.2 billion, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $1.7 billion, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by its revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility does not contain provisions that either restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate repayment of outstanding advances as a result of any change in credit ratings. Pricing is defined in pricing grids, whereby the cost of funds borrowed under the facility is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds. FirstEnergy Money Pools FirstEnergys regulated companies also have the ability to borrow from each other and the holding company to meet their short term working capital requirements. A similar but separate arrangement exists among FirstEnergys unregulated companies. FESC administers these two money pools and tracks surplus funds of FirstEnergy and the respective regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from their respective pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings in 2010 was 0.51% per annum for the regulated companies money pool and 0.60% per annum for the unregulated companies money pool. Pollution Control Revenue Bonds As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys currently payable long term debt included approximately $827 million (FES $778 million, Met Ed $29 million and Penelec $20 million) of variable interest rate PCRBs, the bondholders of which are entitled to the benefit of irrevocable direct pay bank LOCs. The interest rates on the PCRBs are reset daily or weekly. Bondholders can tender their PCRBs for mandatory purchase prior to maturity with the purchase price payable from remarketing proceeds or, if the PCRBs are not successfully remarketed, by drawings on the irrevocable direct pay LOCs. The subsidiary obligor is required to reimburse the applicable LOC bank for any such drawings or, if the LOC bank fails to honor its LOC for any reason, must itself pay the purchase price. The LOCs for FirstEnergy variable interest rate PCRBs were issued by the following banks as of December 31, 2010: Aggregate LOC Reimbursements of LOC Bank Amount(2) LOC Termination Date LOC Draws Due (In millions) CitiBank N.A. $ 166 June 2014 June 2014 The Bank of Nova Scotia 178 Beginning April 2011 Multiple dates(3) The Royal Bank of Scotland 131 June 2012 6 months Wachovia Bank 152 March 2014 March 2014 Barclays Bank(1) 208 April 2011 30 days Total $ 835 (1) Supported by 13 participating banks, with no one bank having more than 22% of the total commitment. (2) Includes approximately $8 million of applicable interest coverage. (3) Shorter of 6 months or LOC termination date ($49 million) and shorter of one year or LOC termination date ($129 million). On August 20, 2010, FES completed the remarketing of $250 million of PCRBs. Of the $250 million, $235 million of PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate. The remaining $15 million of PCRBs continue to bear a fixed interest rate. The interest rate conversion minimizes financial risk by converting the long term debt into a fixed rate and, as a result, reducing exposure to variable interest rates over the short term. These remarketings included two series: $235 million of PCRBs that now bears a per annum rate of 2.25% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 3, 2013; and $15 million of PCRBs that now bears a per annum rate of 1.5% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 1, 2011. On October 1, 2010, FES completed the refinancing and remarketing of six series of PCRBs totaling $313 million. These PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed long term interest rate of 3.375% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase on July 1, 2015. On December 3, 2010, FES completed the remarketing of four series of PCRBs totaling $153 million and Penelec completed the remarketing of $25 million PCRBs. These PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to fixed interest rates ranging from 2.25% to 3.75% per annum. 75 Table of Contents Long Term Debt Capacity As of December 31, 2010, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue approximately $2.4 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to $124 million and $26 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. As a result of the indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of approximately $394 million and $343 million, respectively, under provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31, 2010. Based upon FGCOs FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of December 31, 2010, FGCO had the capability to issue $1.7 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. Based upon NGCs FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property additions, NGC had the capability to issue $695 million of additional FMBs as of December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the ratings of its securities. On February 11, 2010, SP issued a report lowering FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. Moodys and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries on February 11, 2010. On September 28, 2010, SP issued a report reaffirming the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. Fitch revised its outlook on FirstEnergy and FES from stable to negative on December 15, 2010. The following table displays FirstEnergys, FES and the Utilities securities ratings as of December 31, 2010: Senior Secured Senior Unsecured Issuer SP Moodys Fitch SP Moodys Fitch FirstEnergy Corp. BB Baa3 BBB FES BBB Baa2 BBB OE BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB Penn BBB A3 BBB CEI BBB Baa1 BBB BBB Baa3 BBB TE BBB Baa1 BBB JCPL BBB Baa2 BBB Met Ed BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB Penelec BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB ATSI BBB Baa1 Changes in Cash Position As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had $1 billion of cash and cash equivalents compared to $874 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, FirstEnergy had approximately $13 million and $12 million, respectively, of restricted cash included in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, FirstEnergy received $850 million of cash dividends from its subsidiaries and paid $670 million in cash dividends to common shareholders. Cash Flows From Operating Activities FirstEnergys consolidated net cash from operating activities is provided primarily by its competitive energy services and energy delivery services businesses (see Results of Operations above). Net cash provided from operating activities was $3.1 billion in 2010, $2.5 billion in 2009 and $2.2 billion in 2008, as summarized in the following table: 76 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flows 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Net income $ 760 $ 990 $ 1,339 Non cash charges and other adjustments 2,309 2,281 1,405 Pension trust contribution (500 ) Working capital and other 7 (306 ) (520 ) $ 3,076 $ 2,465 $ 2,224 The increase in non cash charges and other adjustments is primarily due to increased impairment charges on long lived assets ($378 million) combined with higher deferred income taxes and investment tax credits ($86 million), partially offset by lower net amortization of regulatory assets of ($297 million), including the impact of CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment recorded during the first quarter of 2009, and reduced charges relating to debt redemptions, primarily caused by a $142 million charge relating to debt redemptions during the third quarter of 2009. The change in working capital and other is primarily due to cash proceeds of $129 million received on the termination of fixed for floating interest rate swaps during the second and third quarters of 2010, changes in investment securities of $121 million, increased accrued taxes and decreased prepayments primarily related to prepaid taxes ($279 million) and changes in uncertain tax positions ($176 million), partially offset by increased accounts receivable ($252 million), decreased accrued interest ($60 million) and increased cash collateral paid to third parties ($56 million). Cash Flows From Financing Activities In 2010, cash used for financing activities was $983 million compared to cash provided from financing activities of $49 million in 2009. The change was primarily due to reduced long term debt issued in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by reduced long term debt redemptions and reduced payments on short term borrowings in 2010 as compared to 2009. The following table summarizes security issuances (net of any discounts) and redemptions: Securities Issued or Redeemed 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) New Issues First mortgage bonds $ $ 398 $ 592 Pollution control notes 740 940 692 Senior secured notes 350 297 Unsecured Notes 9 2,997 83 $ 1,099 $ 4,632 $ 1,367 Redemptions First mortgage bonds $ 32 $ 1 $ 126 Pollution control notes 741 884 698 Senior secured notes 141 217 35 Unsecured notes 101 1,508 175 $ 1,015 $ 2,610 $ 1,034 Short term borrowings, net $ (378 ) $ (1,246 ) $ 1,494 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities resulted primarily from property additions. Additions for the energy delivery services segment primarily represent expenditures related to transmission and distribution facilities. Capital spending by the competitive energy services segment is principally generation related. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by business segment: 77 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows Property Provided from (Used for) Investing Activities Additions Investments Other Total (In millions) Sources (Uses) 2010 Energy delivery services $ (745 ) $ 96 $ 13 $ (636 ) Competitive energy services (1,129 ) (43 ) (51 ) (1,223 ) Other (24 ) (7 ) 30 (1 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (65 ) (23 ) (88 ) Total $ (1,963 ) $ 23 $ (8 ) $ (1,948 ) 2009 Energy delivery services $ (750 ) $ 39 $ (46 ) $ (757 ) Competitive energy services (1,262 ) (8 ) (19 ) (1,289 ) Other (149 ) (3 ) 72 (80 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (42 ) (24 ) 7 (59 ) Total $ (2,203 ) $ 4 $ 14 $ (2,185 ) 2008 Energy delivery services $ (839 ) $ (41 ) $ (17 ) $ (897 ) Competitive energy services (1,835 ) (14 ) (56 ) (1,905 ) Other (176 ) 106 (61 ) (131 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (38 ) (12 ) (50 ) Total $ (2,888 ) $ 39 $ (134 ) $ (2,983 ) Net cash used for investing activities in 2010 decreased by $237 million compared to 2009. The decrease was principally due to a $240 million decrease in property additions (principally lower AQC system expenditures) and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of assets of $96 million, partially offset by $113 million spent by FES in the customer acquisition process. During 2011 through 2013 we anticipate average annual baseline capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion, exclusive of any additional opportunities or future mandated spending. This includes approximately $133 million, $300 million and $183 million in nuclear fuel expenditures for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of December 31, 2010, our estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations that we consider firm obligations are as follows: 2012 2014 Contractual Obligations Total 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter (In millions) Long term debt $ 13,928 $ 437 $ 995 $ 1,165 $ 11,331 Short term borrowings 700 700 Interest on long term debt(1) 10,978 793 1,518 1,379 7,288 Operating leases(2) 3,314 213 477 506 2,118 Fuel and purchased power(3) 16,851 2,660 4,015 3,923 6,253 Capital expenditures 1,109 340 463 306 Pension funding 1,076 250 74 543 209 Other(4) 112 31 14 14 53 Total $ 48,068 $ 5,424 $ 7,556 $ 7,836 $ 27,252 (1) Interest on variable rate debt based on rates as of December 31, 2010. (2) See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements. (4) Includes amounts for capital leases (see Note 7) and contingent tax liabilities (see Note 9). Excluded from the data shown above are estimates for the cash outlays stemming from the power purchase contracts entered into by the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. The exact amount of outlay will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, but based on numerous planning assumptions management estimates an amount of $3.0 billion during 2011. 78 Table of Contents GUARANTEES AND OTHER ASSURANCES As part of normal business activities, FirstEnergy enters into various agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries to provide financial or performance assurances to third parties. These agreements include contract guarantees, surety bonds and LOCs. Some of the guaranteed contracts contain collateral provisions that are contingent upon either FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries credit ratings. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys maximum exposure to potential future payments under outstanding guarantees and other assurances approximated $3.7 billion, as summarized below: Maximum Guarantees and Other Assurances Exposure (In millions) FirstEnergy Guarantees on Behalf of its Subsidiaries Energy and Energy Related Contracts(1) $ 300 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 2 FirstEnergy guarantee of OVEC obligations 300 Other(3) 227 829 Subsidiaries Guarantees Energy and Energy Related Contracts 54 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 3 FES guarantee of NGCs nuclear property insurance 70 FES guarantee of FGCOs sale and leaseback obligations 2,375 Other 2 2,504 Surety Bonds 82 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 3 LOC (non debt)(4)(5) 339 424 Total Guarantees and Other Assurances $ 3,757 (1) Issued for open ended terms, with a 10 day termination right by FirstEnergy. (2) Reflects the interest coverage portion of LOCs issued in support of floating rate PCRBs with various maturities. The principal amount of floating rate PCRBs of $827 million is reflected in currently payable long term debt on FirstEnergys consolidated balance sheets. (3) Includes guarantees of $15 million for nuclear decommissioning funding assurances, $161 million supporting OEs sale and leaseback arrangement, and $39 million for railcar leases. (4) Includes $167 million issued for various terms pursuant to LOC capacity available under FirstEnergys revolving credit facility. (5) Includes approximately $130 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Beaver Valley Unit 2 by OE and $42 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Perry by OE. FirstEnergy guarantees energy and energy related payments of its subsidiaries involved in energy commodity activities principally to facilitate or hedge normal physical transactions involving electricity, gas, emission allowances and coal. FirstEnergy also provides guarantees to various providers of credit support for the financing or refinancing by its subsidiaries of costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. These agreements legally obligate FirstEnergy to fulfill the obligations of those subsidiaries directly involved in energy and energy related transactions or financings where the law might otherwise limit the counterparties claims. If demands of a counterparty were to exceed the ability of a subsidiary to satisfy existing obligations, FirstEnergys guarantee enables the counterpartys legal claim to be satisfied by FirstEnergys assets. FirstEnergy believes the likelihood is remote that such parental guarantees will increase amounts otherwise paid by FirstEnergy to meet its obligations incurred in connection with ongoing energy and energy related activities. 79 Table of Contents While these types of guarantees are normally parental commitments for the future payment of subsidiary obligations, subsequent to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade, an acceleration or funding obligation or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of cash collateral, provision of an LOC or accelerated payments may be required of the subsidiary. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys maximum exposure under these collateral provisions was $468 million, as shown below: Collateral Provisions FES Utilities Total (In millions) Credit rating downgrade to below investment grade (1) $ 364 $ 65 $ 429 Material adverse event (2) 39 39 Total $ 403 $ 65 $ 468 (1) Includes $137 million and $54 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES and the Utilities, respectively. (2) Includes $33 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES. Stress case conditions of a credit rating downgrade or material adverse event and hypothetical adverse price movements in the underlying commodity markets would increase the total potential amount to $532 million consisting of $486 million due to a below investment grade credit rating (of which $224 million is related to an acceleration of payment or funding obligation) and $46 million due to material adverse event contractual clauses. Most of FirstEnergys surety bonds are backed by various indemnities common within the insurance industry. Surety bonds and related guarantees of $82 million provide additional assurance to outside parties that contractual and statutory obligations will be met in a number of areas including construction contracts, environmental commitments and various retail transactions. In addition to guarantees and surety bonds, FES contracts, including power contracts with affiliates awarded through competitive bidding processes, typically contain margining provisions which require the posting of cash or LOCs in amounts determined by future power price movements. Based on FES power portfolio as of December 31, 2010, and forward prices as of that date, FES has posted collateral of $185 million. Under a hypothetical adverse change in forward prices (95% confidence level change in forward prices over a one year time horizon), FES would be required to post an additional $28 million. Depending on the volume of forward contracts and future price movements, FES could be required to post higher amounts for margining. In connection with FES obligations to post and maintain collateral under the two year PSA entered into by FES and the Ohio Companies following the CBP auction on May 13 14, 2009, NGC entered into a Surplus Margin Guaranty in an amount up to $500 million. The Surplus Margin Guaranty is secured by an NGC FMB issued in favor of the Ohio Companies. FES debt obligations are generally guaranteed by its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, and FES guarantees the debt obligations of each of FGCO and NGC. Accordingly, present and future holders of indebtedness of FES, FGCO and NGC will have claims against each of FES, FGCO and NGC regardless of whether their primary obligor is FES, FGCO or NGC. As noted above under Capital Resources and Liquidity, FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II LLC have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility entered into by Signal Peak and Global Rail. In addition, FEV and the other entities that directly own the equity interest in the borrowers have pledged those interests to the banks as collateral for the facility. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS FES and the Ohio Companies have obligations that are not included on their Consolidated Balance Sheets related to sale and leaseback arrangements involving the Bruce Mansfield Plant, Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2, which are satisfied through operating lease payments. The total present value of these sale and leaseback operating lease commitments, net of trust investments, was $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2010. MARKET RISK INFORMATION FirstEnergy uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. 80 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk FirstEnergy is exposed to financial and market risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices associated with electricity, energy transmission, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and emission allowances. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FirstEnergy uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FirstEnergy relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FirstEnergy uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (331 ) (157 ) (52 ) (36 ) (576 ) Prices based on models 24 110 134 Total(3) $ (331 ) $ (157 ) $ (52 ) $ (36 ) $ 24 $ 110 $ (442 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $335 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. FirstEnergy performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $16 million ($10 million net of tax) during the next 12 months. Interest Rate Swap Agreements Fair Value Hedges FirstEnergy has used fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements to hedge a portion of the consolidated interest rate risk associated with the debt portfolio of its subsidiaries. These derivatives were treated as fair value hedges of fixed rate, long term debt issues, protecting against the risk of changes in the fair value of fixed rate debt instruments due to lower interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, no fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements were outstanding. Total unamortized gains included in long term debt associated with prior fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements totaled $124 million ($80 million net of tax) as of December 31, 2010. Based on current estimates, approximately $22 million will be amortized to interest expense during the next twelve months. Reclassifications from long term debt into interest expense totaled $12 million during 2010. Interest Rate Risk FirstEnergys exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities. As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, FirstEnergys investments in capital trusts effectively reduce future lease obligations, also reducing interest rate risk. 81 Table of Contents Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 80 $ 90 $ 101 $ 110 $ 76 $ 1,755 $ 2,212 $ 2,304 Average interest rate 8.4 % 8 % 8 % 8 % 8.1 % 5.7 % 6.2 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 437 $ 94 $ 551 $ 536 $ 629 $ 10,504 $ 12,751 $ 13,668 Average interest rate 5.7 % 7.8 % 5.8 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 6.3 % 6.1 % Variable rate $ 350 $ 827 $ 1,177 $ 1,177 Average interest rate 2.5 % 0.3 % 1 % Short term Borrowings: $ 700 $ 700 $ 700 Average interest rate 0.7 % 0.7 % Equity Price Risk FirstEnergy provides a noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plan provides defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. FirstEnergy also provides health care benefits (which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments) upon retirement to employees hired prior to January 1, 2005, their dependents, and under certain circumstances, their survivors. The benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date or as significant triggering events occur. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 28% of the pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, 50% invested in fixed income securities, 11% invested in absolute return strategies, 6% invested in real estate, 4% invested in private equity and 1% invested in cash. The plan is 83% funded on an accumulated benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2010. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys pension plan assets could result in additional funding requirements. FirstEnergy intends to voluntarily contribute $250 million to its pension plan in 2011. Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy NGCs and the Utilities nuclear decommissioning obligations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 73% of the funds were invested in fixed income securities, 17% of the funds were invested in equity securities and 10% were invested in short term investments, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. The investments are carried at their market values of approximately $1,454 million, $337 million and $189 million for fixed income securities, equity securities and short term investments, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $34 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trusts of JCPL and the Pennsylvania Companies are subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. NGC, OE and TE recognize in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trusts as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees, and $6 million was contributed to the JCPL and Pennsylvania nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with regulatory requirements. FirstEnergy continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of these nuclear facilities. 82 Table of Contents CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. FirstEnergy engages in transactions for the purchase and sale of commodities including gas, electricity, coal and emission allowances. These transactions are often with major energy companies within the industry. FirstEnergy maintains credit policies with respect to its counterparties to manage overall credit risk. This includes performing independent risk evaluations, actively monitoring portfolio trends and using collateral and contract provisions to mitigate exposure. As part of its credit program, FirstEnergy aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (SP). As of December 31, 2010, the largest credit concentration was with J.P. Morgan Chase Co., which is currently rated investment grade, representing 10.9% of FirstEnergys total approved credit risk composed of 3.3% for FES, 2.2% for JCPL, 2.7% for Met Ed and a combined 2.7% for OE, TE and CEI. REGULATORY MATTERS Regulatory assets that do not earn a current return totaled approximately $215 million as of December 31, 2010 (JCPL $38 million, Met Ed $131 million, Penelec $12 million, CEI $16 million and OE $18 million). Regulatory assets not earning a current return (primarily for certain regulatory transition costs and employee postretirement benefits) are expected to be recovered by 2014 for JCPL and by 2020 for Met Ed and Penelec. FirstEnergy and the Utilities prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulation. Under this guidance, regulatory assets represent incurred or accrued costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent the recovery of costs or accrued liabilities that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates. The following table provides the balance of regulatory assets by Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and changes during 2010: December 31, December 31, Increase Regulatory Assets 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) OE $ 400 $ 465 $ (65 ) CEI 370 546 (176 ) TE 72 70 2 JCPL 513 888 (375 ) Met Ed 296 357 (61 ) Penelec 163 9 154 Other 12 21 (9 ) Total $ 1,826 $ 2,356 $ (530 ) The following table provides information about the composition of regulatory assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and the changes during 2010: December 31, December 31, Increase Regulatory Assets by Source 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Regulatory transition costs $ 770 $ 1,100 $ (330 ) Customer shopping incentives 154 (154 ) Customer receivables for future income taxes 326 329 (3 ) Loss on reacquired debt 48 51 (3 ) Employee postretirement benefits 16 23 (7 ) Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (184 ) (162 ) (22 ) Asset removal costs (237 ) (231 ) (6 ) MISO/PJM transmission costs 184 148 36 Deferred generation costs 386 369 17 Distribution costs 426 482 (56 ) Other 91 93 (2 ) Total $ 1,826 $ 2,356 $ (530 ) 83 Table of Contents Ohio The Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2011, that provides for generation supplied through a CBP. The ESP also allows the Ohio Companies to collect a delivery service improvement rider (Rider DSI) at an overall average rate of $0.002 per KWH for the period of April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. The Ohio Companies currently purchase generation at the average wholesale rate of a CBP conducted in May 2009. FES is one of the suppliers to the Ohio Companies through the May 2009 CBP. The PUCO approved a $136.6 million distribution rate increase for the Ohio Companies in January 2009, which went into effect on January 23, 2009 for OE ($68.9 million) and TE ($38.5 million) and on May 1, 2009 for CEI ($29.2 million). Applications for rehearing of the PUCO order in the distribution case were filed by the Ohio Companies and one other party. The Ohio Companies raised numerous issues in their application for rehearing related to rate recovery of certain expenses, recovery of line extension costs, the level of rate of return and the amount of general plant balances. On February 2, 2011, the PUCO issued an Entry on Rehearing denying the applications for rehearing filed both by the Ohio Companies and by the other party. On March 23, 2010, the Ohio Companies filed an application for a new ESP. The new ESP will go into effect on June 1, 2011 and conclude on May 31, 2014. The PUCO approved the new ESP on August 25, 2010 with certain modifications. The material terms of the new ESP include: a CBP similar to the one used in May 2009 and the one proposed in the October 2009 MRO filing; a 6% generation discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (initial auctions scheduled for October 20, 2010 and January 25, 2011); no increase in base distribution rates through May 31, 2014; a load cap of no less than 80%, which also applies to any tranches assigned post auction; and a new distribution rider, Delivery Capital Recovery Rider (Rider DCR), to recover a return of, and on, capital investments in the delivery system. Rider DCR substitutes for Rider DSI which terminates under the current ESP. The Ohio Companies also agreed not to pay certain costs related to the companies integration into PJM, for the longer of the five year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2016 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million dependent on the outcome of certain PJM proceedings, established a $12 million fund to assist low income customers over the term of the ESP, and agreed to additional energy efficiency benefits. Many of the existing riders approved in the previous ESP remain in effect, some with modifications. The new ESP resolved proceedings pending at the PUCO regarding corporate separation, elements of the smart grid proceeding and the integration into PJM. FirstEnergy recorded approximately $39.5 million of regulatory asset impairments and expenses related to the ESP. On September 24, 2010, an application for rehearing was filed by the OCC and two other parties. On February 9, 2011, the PUCO issued an Entry on Rehearing denying the applications for rehearing. Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately 166,000 MWH in 2009, 290,000 MWH in 2010, 410,000 MWH in 2011, 470,000 MWH in 2012 and 530,000 MWH in 2013, with additional savings required through 2025. Utilities are also required to reduce peak demand in 2009 by 1%, with an additional 0.75% reduction each year thereafter through 2018. On December 15, 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required three year portfolio plan seeking approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand reduction requirements for the 2010 2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers. The Ohio Companies three year portfolio plan is still awaiting decision from the PUCO, which is delaying the launch of the programs described in the plan. As a result, the Ohio Companies filed on January 11, 2011, a request for amendment of OEs 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks to levels actually achieved in 2010. Because the Commission indicated that it would revise all of the Ohio Companies 2010, 2011, and 2012 benchmarks when addressing the Ohio Companies three year portfolio plan, and an order has yet to be issued on that plan, CEI and TE also requested a waiver of their respective yet to be defined 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks if and only to the degree one is deemed necessary to bring these companies into compliance with their 2010 energy efficiency obligations. Failure to comply with the benchmarks or to obtain such an amendment may subject the Companies to an assessment by the PUCO of a penalty. 84 Table of Contents Additionally under SB221, electric utilities and electric service companies are required to serve part of their load from renewable energy resources equivalent to 0.25% of the KWH they served in 2009. In August and October 2009, the Ohio Companies conducted RFPs to secure RECs. The RFPs sought RECs, including solar RECs and RECs generated in Ohio in order to meet the Ohio Companies alternative energy requirements as set forth in SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. The RECs acquired through these two RFPs were used to help meet the renewable energy requirements established under SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. On March 10, 2010, the PUCO found that there was an insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market. The PUCO reduced the Ohio Companies aggregate 2009 benchmark to the level of solar RECs the Ohio Companies acquired through their 2009 RFP processes, provided the Ohio Companies 2010 alternative energy requirements be increased to include the shortfall for the 2009 solar REC benchmark. FES also applied for a force majeure determination from the PUCO regarding a portion of their compliance with the 2009 solar energy resource benchmark, which application is still pending. In July 2010, the Ohio Companies initiated an additional RFP to secure RECs and solar RECs needed to meet the Ohio Companies alternative energy requirements as set forth in SB221 for 2010 and 2011. As a result of this RFP, contracts were executed in August 2010. On January 11, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO seeking an amendment to each of their 2010 alternative energy requirements for solar RECs generated in Ohio due to the insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market. The PUCO has not yet ruled on that application. On February 12, 2010, OE and CEI filed an application with the PUCO to establish a new credit for all electric customers. On March 3, 2010, the PUCO ordered that rates for the affected customers be set at a level that will provide bill impacts commensurate with charges in place on December 31, 2008 and authorized the Ohio Companies to defer incurred costs equivalent to the difference between what the affected customers would have paid under previously existing rates and what they pay with the new credit in place. Tariffs implementing this new credit went into effect on March 17, 2010. On April 15, 2010, the PUCO issued a Second Entry on Rehearing that expanded the group of customers to which the new credit would apply and authorized deferral for the associated additional amounts. The PUCO also stated that it expected that the new credit would remain in place through at least the 2011 winter season, and charged its staff to work with parties to seek a long term solution to the issue. Tariffs implementing this newly expanded credit went into effect on May 21, 2010, and the proceeding remains open. The hearing in the matter is set to commence on February 16, 2011. Pennsylvania The PPUC adopted a Motion on January 28, 2010 and subsequently entered an Order on March 3, 2010 which denied the recovery of marginal transmission losses through the TSC rider for the period of June 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, and directed Met Ed and Penelec to submit a new tariff or tariff supplement reflecting the removal of marginal transmission losses from the TSC, and instructed Met Ed and Penelec to work with the various intervening parties to file a recommendation to the PPUC regarding the establishment of a separate account for all marginal transmission losses collected from ratepayers plus interest to be used to mitigate future generation rate increases beginning January 1, 2011. On March 18, 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition with the PPUC requesting that it stay the portion of the March 3, 2010 Order requiring the filing of tariff supplements to end collection of costs for marginal transmission losses. By Order entered March 25, 2010, the PPUC granted the requested stay until December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the PPUCs order, Met Ed and Penelec filed the plan to establish separate accounts for marginal transmission loss revenues and related interest and carrying charges and the plan for the use of these funds to mitigate future generation rate increases commencing January 1, 2011. The PPUC approved this plan on June 7, 2010. On April 1, 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania appealing the PPUCs March 3, 2010 Order. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, Met Ed and Penelec believe that they should prevail in the appeal and therefore expect to fully recover the approximately $252.7 million ($188.0 million for Met Ed and $64.7 million for Penelec) in marginal transmission losses for the period prior to January 1, 2011. The argument before the Commonwealth Court, en banc, was held on December 8, 2010. On May 20, 2010, the PPUC approved Met Eds and Penelecs annual updates to their TSC rider for the period June 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The TSC for Met Eds customers was increased to provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010. Met Ed and Penelec filed with the PPUC a generation procurement plan covering the period January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. The plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service through a prudent mix of long term, short term and spot market generation supply with a staggered procurement schedule that varies by customer class, using a descending clock auction. On August 12, 2009, the parties to the proceeding filed a settlement agreement of all but two issues, and the PPUC entered an Order approving the settlement and the generation procurement plan on November 6, 2009. Generation procurement began in January 2010. On February 8, 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its Default Service Plan for the period June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. On July 29, 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs. 85 Table of Contents Met Ed, Penelec and Penn jointly filed a SMIP with the PPUC on August 14, 2009. This plan proposed a 24 month assessment period in which the Pennsylvania Companies will assess their needs, select the necessary technology, secure vendors, train personnel, install and test support equipment, and establish a cost effective and strategic deployment schedule, which currently is expected to be completed in fifteen years. Met Ed, Penelec and Penn estimate assessment period costs of approximately $29.5 million, which the Pennsylvania Companies, in their plan, proposed to recover through an automatic adjustment clause. The ALJs Initial Decision approved the SMIP as modified by the ALJ, including: ensuring that the smart meters to be deployed include the capabilities listed in the PPUCs Implementation Order; denying the recovery of interest through the automatic adjustment clause; providing for the recovery of reasonable and prudent costs net of resulting savings from installation and use of smart meters; and requiring that administrative start up costs be expensed and the costs incurred for research and development in the assessment period be capitalized. On April 15, 2010, the PPUC adopted a Motion by Chairman Cawley that modified the ALJs initial decision, and decided various issues regarding the SMIP for the Pennsylvania Companies. The PPUC entered its Order on June 9, 2010, consistent with the Chairmans Motion. On June 24, 2010, Met Ed, Penelec and Penn filed a Petition for Reconsideration of a single portion of the PPUCs Order regarding the future ability to include smart meter costs in base rates. On August 5, 2010, the PPUC granted in part the petition for reconsideration by deleting language from its original order that would have precluded Met Ed, Penelec and Penn from seeking to include smart meter costs in base rates at a later time. The costs to implement the SMIP could be material. However, assuming these costs satisfy a just and reasonable standard they are expected to be recovered in a rider (Smart Meter Technologies Charge Rider) which was approved when the PPUC approved the SMIP. By Tentative Order entered September 17, 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional 30 day comment period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met Ed and Penelec were going to implement direct access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met Ed and Penelec to apply over collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non NUG stranded costs when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various parties filed comments objecting to the above accounting method utilized by Met Ed and Penelec. Met Ed and Penelec are awaiting further action by the PPUC. New Jersey JCPL is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which its costs of supplying BGS to non shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG agreements, and certain other stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy and capacity. As of December 31, 2010, the accumulated deferred cost balance was a credit of approximately $37 million. To better align the recovery of expected costs, on July 26, 2010, JCPL filed a request to decrease the amount recovered for the costs incurred under the NUG agreements by $180 million annually. On February 10, 2011, the NJBPU approved a stipulation which allows the change in rates to become effective March 1, 2011. On March 13, 2009, JCPL filed its annual SBC Petition with the NJBPU that includes a request for a reduction in the level of recovery of TMI 2 decommissioning costs based on an updated TMI 2 decommissioning cost analysis dated January 2009 estimated at $736 million (in 2003 dollars). This matter is currently pending before the NJBPU. New Jersey statutes require that the state periodically undertake a planning process, known as the EMP, to address energy related issues including energy security, economic growth, and environmental impact. The NJBPU adopted an order establishing the general process and contents of specific EMP plans that must be filed by New Jersey electric and gas utilities in order to achieve the goals of the EMP. On April 16, 2010, the NJBPU issued an order indefinitely suspending the requirement of New Jersey utilities to submit Utility Master Plans until such time as the status of the EMP has been made clear. At this time, FirstEnergy and JCPL cannot determine the impact, if any, the EMP may have on their operations. 86 Table of Contents FERC Matters Rates for Transmission Service Between MISO and PJM On November 18, 2004, the FERC issued an order eliminating the through and out rate for transmission service between the MISO and PJM regions. The FERCs intent was to eliminate multiple transmission charges for a single transaction between the MISO and PJM regions. The FERC also ordered MISO, PJM and the transmission owners within MISO and PJM to submit compliance filings containing a rate mechanism to recover lost transmission revenues created by elimination of this charge (referred to as SECA) during a 16 month transition period. In 2005, the FERC set the SECA for hearing. The presiding ALJ issued an initial decision on August 10, 2006, rejecting the compliance filings made by MISO, PJM and the transmission owners, and directing new compliance filings. This decision was subject to review and approval by the FERC. On May 21, 2010, FERC issued an order denying pending rehearing requests and an Order on Initial Decision which reversed the presiding ALJs rulings in many respects. Most notably, these orders affirmed the right of transmission owners to collect SECA charges with adjustments that modestly reduce the level of such charges, and changes to the entities deemed responsible for payment of the SECA charges. The Ohio Companies were identified as load serving entities responsible for payment of additional SECA charges for a portion of the SECA period (Green Mountain/Quest issue). FirstEnergy executed settlements with AEP, Dayton and the Exelon parties to fix FirstEnergys liability for SECA charges originally billed to Green Mountain and Quest for load that returned to regulated service during the SECA period. The AEP, Dayton and Exelon, settlements were approved by FERC on November 23, 2010, and the relevant payments made. Rehearings remain pending in this proceeding. PJM Transmission Rate On April 19, 2007, FERC issued an order (Opinion 494) finding that the PJM transmission owners existing license plate or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at 500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a postage stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a load flow methodology (DFAX), which is generally referred to as a beneficiary pays approach to allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities. The FERCs Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which issued a decision on August 6, 2009. The court affirmed FERCs ratemaking treatment for existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate costs for new 500 kV facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded the rate design issue back to FERC. In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for paper hearings meaning that FERC called for parties to submit comments or written testimony pursuant to the schedule described in the order. FERC identified nine separate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJMs filing demonstrated that allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results in certain eastern utilities in PJM bearing the majority of their costs. Numerous parties filed responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Certain eastern utilities and their state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a load ratio share basis. FERC is expected to act by May 31, 2011. RTO Realignment On December 17, 2009, FERC issued an order approving, subject to certain future compliance filings, ATSIs withdrawal from MISO and integration into PJM. This move, which is expected to be effective on June 1, 2011, allows FirstEnergy to consolidate its transmission assets and operations into PJM. Currently, FirstEnergys transmission assets and operations are divided between PJM and MISO. The realignment will make the transmission assets that are part of ATSI, whose footprint includes the Ohio Companies and Penn, part of PJM. In the order, FERC approved FirstEnergys proposal to use a FRR Plan to obtain capacity to satisfy the PJM capacity requirements for the 2011 12 and 2012 13 delivery years. FirstEnergy successfully conducted the FRR auctions on March 19, 2010. Moreover, the ATSI zone loads participated in the PJM base residual auction for the 2013 delivery year. Successful completion of these steps secured the capacity necessary for the ATSI footprint to meet PJMs capacity requirements. On August 25, 2010, the PUCO issued an order in the 2010 ESP Case approving a settlement that, among other things, called for the PUCO to withdraw its opposition to the RTO consolidation. In addition, the order approved a wholesale procurement process, and certain retail choice policies, that reflected ATSIs entry into PJM on June 1, 2011. 87 Table of Contents On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJMs tariffs. FirstEnergy expects ATSI to enter PJM on June 1, 2011, and that if legal proceedings regarding its rate are outstanding at that time, ATSI will be permitted to start charging its proposed rates, subject to refund. Additional FERC proceedings are either pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the ATSI zone upon its withdrawal from the Midwest ISO will be determined. In addition, certain parties may protest other aspects of ATSIs integration into PJM, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved in future FERC proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. MISO Multi Value Project Rule Proposal On July 15, 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission projects described as MVPs are a class of MTEP projects. The filing parties proposed to allocate the costs of MVPs by means of a usage based charge that will be applied to all loads within the MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be wheeled through the MISO as well as to energy transactions that source in the MISO but sink outside of MISO. The filing parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the east. The filing parties requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISOs Board approved the first MVP project the Michigan Thumb Project. Under MISOs proposal, the costs of MVP projects approved by MISOs Board prior to the anticipated June 1, 2011 effective date of FirstEnergys integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated that approximately $11 million in annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion. On September 10, 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISOs proposal to allocate costs of MVP projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the beneficiary pays approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress to date in the ATSI integration into PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI. Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISOs MVP proposal. On December 16, 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change. FERCs order was not clear, however, as to whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISOs tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attach prior to ATSIs exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERCs order and would be addressed in future proceedings. On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy filed for rehearing of FERCs order. In its rehearing request, the Company argued that because the MVP rate is usage based, costs could not be applied to ATSI, which is a stand alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the ATSI zone or to ATSI. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings at this time. Sales to Affiliates FES has received authorization from FERC to make wholesale power sales to the Utilities. FES actively participates in auctions conducted by or on behalf of the Utilities to obtain the power and related services necessary to meet the Utilities POLR obligations. Because of the merger with FirstEnergy, AS is considered an affiliate of the Utilities for purposes of FERCs affiliate restriction regulations. This requires AS to obtain prior FERC authorization to make sales to the Utilities when it successfully participates in the Utilities POLR auctions. FES currently supplies the Ohio Companies with a portion of their capacity, energy, ancillary services and transmission under a Master SSO Supply Agreement for a two year period ending May 31, 2011. FES won 51 tranches in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by the Ohio Companies and their consultant, CRA International on May 13 14, 2009. Other winning suppliers have assigned their Master SSO Supply Agreements to FES, five of which were effective in June, two more in July, four more in August and ten more in September, 2009. FES also supplies power used by Constellation to serve an additional five tranches. As a result of these arrangements, FES serves 77 tranches, or 77% of the POLR load of the Ohio Companies until May 31, 2011. On October 20, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by the Ohio Companies and their consultant, CRA International, for the following periods: June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012; June 1, 2011, through May 31, 2013; and June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2014. The Ohio Companies offered 17, 17, and 16 tranches for these periods, respectively. FES won 10, 7, and 3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. On January 25, 2011, the Ohio Companies conducted a second auction offering the same product for identical time periods. FES won 3, 0, and 3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. FES entered into a Master SSO Supply Agreement to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs to the Ohio Companies for the tranches won. Under the ESP in effect for these time periods, the Ohio Companies are responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM for POLR service. 88 Table of Contents On October 18, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by both Met Ed and Penelec and their consultant, National Economic Research Associates (NERA) for the following tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 5 month, Residential 24 month, Commercial 5 month, Commercial 12 month and Industrial 12 month. All 5 month delivery periods are from January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2011, all 12 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012 while all 24 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. Met Ed offered 7 Residential 5 month tranches, 4 Residential 24 month tranches, 6 Commercial 5 month tranches, 6 Commercial 12 month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche while Penelec offered 5 Residential 5 month tranches, 3 Residential 24 month tranches, 5 Commercial 5 month tranches, 5 Commercial 12 month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche. For Met Ed offerings, FES won 4 Residential 5 month tranches, 2 Residential 24 month tranches, 1 Commercial 5 month tranche, 1 Commercial 12 month tranche and zero Industrial tranches. For Penelec offerings, FES won 1 Residential 5 month tranche, 1 Residential 24 month tranche, zero Commercial 5 month tranches, zero Commercial 12 month tranches and zero Industrial tranches. FES entered into separate Supplier Master Agreements (SMA) to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs with Met Ed and Penelec for each product won. Under the terms and conditions of the SMA, Met Ed and Penelec are responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM. On January 18 to 20, 2011 FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by Met Ed, Penelec, and Penn Power and their consultant, NERA for the following tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 12 month, Residential 24 month, Commercial 12 month and Industrial 12 month. All 12 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012 while all 24 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. Met Ed offered 3 Residential 12 month tranches, 4 Residential 24 month tranches, 6 Commercial 12 month tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penelec offered 3 Residential 12 month tranches, 2 Residential 24 month tranches, 5 Commercial 12 month tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penn Power offered 2 Residential 12 month tranches, 1 Residential 24 month tranche, 3 Commercial 12 month tranches and 3 Industrial tranches. For Met Ed offerings, FES won 1 Commercial 12 month tranche and zero for the remaining products. For Penelec and Penn Power offerings, FES won no tranches. FES entered into a SMA to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs with Met Ed for the product won. Under the terms and conditions of the SMA, Met Ed is responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM. Reliability Initiatives Federally enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk power system and impose certain operating, record keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, FGCO, FENOC and ATSI. The NERC, as the ERO is charged with establishing and enforcing these reliability standards, although it has delegated day to day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to eight regional entities, including ReliabilityFirst Corporation. All of FirstEnergys facilities are located within the ReliabilityFirst region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and ReliabilityFirst stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by the ReliabilityFirst Corporation. FirstEnergy believes that it generally is in compliance with all currently effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases self reporting an item to ReliabilityFirst. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, ReliabilityFirst and the FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying with new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time; however, 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the new reliability standards be recovered in rates. Still, any future inability on FirstEnergys part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 9, 2008, a transformer at JCPLs Oceanview substation failed, resulting in an outage on certain bulk electric system (transmission voltage) lines out of the Oceanview and Atlantic substations resulting in customers losing power for up to eleven hours. On March 31, 2009, the NERC initiated a Compliance Violation Investigation in order to determine JCPLs contribution to the electrical event and to review any potential violation of NERC Reliability Standards associated with the event. NERC has submitted first and second Requests for Information regarding this and another related matter. JCPL is complying with these requests. JCPL is not able to predict what actions, if any, that the NERC may take with respect to this matter. 89 Table of Contents On August 23, 2010, FirstEnergy self reported to ReliabilityFirst a vegetation encroachment event on a Met Ed 230 kV line. This event did not result in a fault, outage, operation of protective equipment, or any other meaningful electric effect on any FirstEnergy transmission facilities or systems. On August 25, 2010, ReliabilityFirst issued a Notice of Enforcement to investigate the incident. FirstEnergy submitted a data response to ReliabilityFirst on September 27, 2010. At this time, FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of this investigation. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations. Clean Air Act Compliance FirstEnergy is required to meet federally approved SO2 and NOx emissions regulations under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) under the CAA by burning lower sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower emitting plants and or using emission allowances. Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and or civil or criminal penalties. The Sammis, Eastlake and Mansfield coal fired plants are operated under a consent decree with the EPA and DOJ that requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions through the installation of pollution control devices or repowering. OE and Penn are subject to stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls or complete repowering in accordance with that agreement. In July 2008, three complaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Bruce Mansfield Plant air emissions. Two of these complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty one individuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in those three complaints. The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at the Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met Ed in 1999) and Met Ed. Specifically, these suits allege that modifications at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program, and seek injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009, the Court granted Met Eds motion to dismiss New Jerseys and Connecticuts claims for injunctive relief against Met Ed, but denied Met Eds motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The parties dispute the scope of Met Eds indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy. In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn alleging NSR violations at the Portland Generation Station based on modifications dating back to 1986 and also alleged NSR violations at the Keystone and Shawville Stations based on modifications dating back to 1984. Met Ed, JCPL, as the former owner of 16.67% of the Keystone Station, and Penelec, as former owner and operator of the Shawville Station, are unable to predict the outcome of this matter. In June 2008, the EPA issued a Notice and Finding of Violation to Mission Energy Westside, Inc. alleging that modifications at the Homer City Power Station occurred since 1988 to the present without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program. In May 2010, the EPA issued a second NOV to Mission Energy Westside, Inc., Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in the Homer City Power Station containing in all material respects identical allegations as the June 2008 NOV. On July 20, 2010, the states of New York and Pennsylvania provided Mission Energy Westside, Inc., Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in the Homer City Power Station a notification that was required 60 days prior to filing a citizen suit under the CAA. In January, 2011, the DOJ filed a complaint against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on alleged modifications at the Homer City Power Station between 1991 to 1994 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD and Title V permitting programs. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG, and various current owners of the Homer City Station, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. In addition, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of New York intervened and have filed a separate complaint regarding the Homer City Station. Mission Energy Westside, Inc. is seeking indemnification from Penelec, the co owner and operator of the Homer City Power Station prior to its sale in 1999. The scope of Penelecs indemnity obligation to and from Mission Energy Westside, Inc. is under dispute and Penelec is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 90 Table of Contents In January 2011, a complaint was filed against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on the Homer City Stations air emissions. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG and various current owners of the Homer City Station, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. The complaint also seeks certification as a class action and to enjoin the Homer City Station from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner. Penelec believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in the complaint. In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, including the PSD, NNSR, and Title V regulations at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula generating plants. The EPAs NOV alleges equipment replacements occurring during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre construction permitting requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO received a request for certain operating and maintenance information and planning information for these same generating plants and notification that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake generating plant may constitute a major modification under the NSR provision of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake generating plant. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPAs information requests, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. National Ambient Air Quality Standards The EPAs CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in its entirety and directed the EPA to redo its analysis from the ground up. In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Courts opinion. The Court ruled in a different case that a cap and trade program similar to CAIR, called the NOx SIP Call, cannot be used to satisfy certain CAA requirements (known as reasonably available control technology) for areas in non attainment under the 8 hour ozone NAAQS. In July 2010, the EPA proposed the CATR to replace CAIR, which remains in effect until the EPA finalizes CATR. CATR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.6 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. The EPA proposed a preferred regulatory approach that allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and severely limits interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances. The EPA also requested comment on two alternative approaches the first eliminates interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances and the second eliminates trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances in its entirety. Depending on the actions taken by the EPA with respect to CATR, the proposed MACT regulations discussed below and any future regulations that are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance may be substantial. Management continues to assess the impact of these environmental proposals and other factors on FGCOs facilities, particularly on the operation of its smaller, non supercritical units. In August 2010, for example, management decided to idle certain units or operate them on a seasonal basis until developments clarify. Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions The EPAs CAMR provides for a cap and trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping nationwide emissions of mercury at 38 tons by 2010 (as a co benefit from implementation of SO2 and NOx emission caps under the EPAs CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, at the urging of several states and environmental groups, vacated the CAMR, ruling that the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to de list coal fired power plants from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a cap and trade program. On April 29, 2010, the EPA issued proposed MACT regulations requiring emissions reductions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from non electric generating unit boilers. If finalized, the non electric generating unit MACT regulations could also provide precedent for MACT standards applicable to electric generating units. On January 20, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia denied a motion by the EPA for an extension of the deadline to issue final rules, ordering the EPA to issue such rules by February 21, 2011. The EPA also entered into a consent decree requiring it to propose MACT regulations for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units by March 16, 2011, and to finalize the regulations by November 16, 2011. Depending on the action taken by the EPA and on how any future regulations are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance with MACT regulations may be substantial and changes to FGCOs operations may result. 91 Table of Contents Climate Change There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, on June 26, 2009. The Senate continues to consider a number of measures to regulate GHG emissions. President Obama has announced his Administrations New Energy for America Plan that includes, among other provisions, ensuring that 10% of electricity used in the United States comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing to 25% by 2025, and implementing an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050. State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states, led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs. In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that will require FirstEnergy to measure GHG emissions commencing in 2010 and submit reports commencing in 2011. In December 2009, the EPA released its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act. The EPAs finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years 2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light duty trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles and clarified that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAAs NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) effective January 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the CAAs PSD program, but until July 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if PSD is triggered by non carbon dioxide pollutants. At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non binding political agreement which recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees Celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate related activities in developing countries. Once they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification. On September 21, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and on October 16, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global warming and result in property damages. On December 6, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to the Second Circuit in Connecticut v. AEP. Briefing and oral argument are expected to be completed in early 2011 and a decision issued in or around June 2011. While FirstEnergy is not a party to this litigation, FirstEnergy and or one or more of its subsidiaries could be named in actions making similar allegations. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non CO2 emitting gas fired and nuclear generators. Clean Water Act Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations. 92 Table of Contents The EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). The EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. On April 1, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuits opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. The EPA is developing a new regulation under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act consistent with the opinions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals which have created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final performance standard. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plants water intake channel to divert fish away from the plants water intake system. On November 19, 2010, the Ohio EPA issued a permit for the Bay Shore power plant requiring installation of reverse louvers in its entire water intake channel by December 31, 2014. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. In June 2008, the U.S. Attorneys Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is considering prosecution under the Clean Water Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27, 2007. FGCO is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. Regulation of Waste Disposal Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPAs evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste. On December 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the EPA said that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. On May 4, 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FGCOs future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. The Utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the Utilities proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $104 million (JCPL $69 million, TE $1 million, CEI $1 million, FGCO $1 million and FirstEnergy $32 million) have been accrued through December 31, 2010. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $64 million for environmental remediation of former MGPs and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCPL through a non bypassable SBC. OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Power Outages and Related Litigation In July 1999, the Mid Atlantic States experienced a severe heat wave, which resulted in power outages throughout the service territories of many electric utilities, including JCPLs territory. Two class action lawsuits (subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding) were filed in New Jersey Superior Court in July 1999 against JCPL, GPU and other GPU companies, seeking compensatory and punitive damages due to the outages. After various motions, rulings and appeals, the Plaintiffs claims for consumer fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, strict product liability and punitive damages were dismissed, leaving only the negligence and breach of contract causes of actions. On July 29, 2010, the Appellate Division upheld the trial courts decision decertifying the class. Plaintiffs have filed, and JCPL has opposed, a motion for leave to appeal to the New Jersey Supreme Court. JCPL is waiting for the Courts decision. 93 Table of Contents Litigation Relating to the Proposed Allegheny Merger In connection with the proposed merger (Note 22), purported shareholders of Allegheny have filed putative shareholder class action and or derivative lawsuits against Allegheny and its directors and certain officers, referred to as the Allegheny Energy defendants, FirstEnergy and Merger Sub. Four putative class action and derivative lawsuits were filed in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland (Maryland Court). One was withdrawn. The Maryland Court has consolidated the remaining three cases under the caption: In re Allegheny Energy Shareholder and Derivative Litigation, C.A. No. 24 C 10 1301. Three shareholder lawsuits were filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania and the court has consolidated these actions under the caption: In re Allegheny Energy, Inc. Shareholder Class and Derivative, Litigation, Lead Case No. 1101 of 2010. One putative shareholder class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania and is captioned Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System v. Evanson, et al., C.A. No. 10 319 NBF. In summary, the lawsuits allege, among other things, that the Allegheny Energy directors breached their fiduciary duties by approving the merger agreement, and that Allegheny, FirstEnergy and Merger Sub aided and abetted in these alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The complaints seek, among other things, jury trials, money damages and injunctive relief. While FirstEnergy believes the lawsuits are without merit and has defended vigorously against the claims, in order to avoid the costs associated with the litigation, the defendants have agreed to the terms of a disclosure based settlement of all these shareholder lawsuits and have reached agreement with counsel for all of the plaintiffs concerning fee applications. Under the terms of the settlement, no payments are being made by FirstEnergy or Merger Sub. A formal stipulation of settlement was filed with the Maryland Court on October 18, 2010 and it was approved and became final on January 12, 2011. The separate Pennsylvania federal and state proceedings were dismissed on January 14, 2011 and January 18, 2011, respectively. The above shareholder actions have been fully and finally resolved. Nuclear Plant Matters During a planned refueling outage that began on February 28, 2010, FENOC conducted a non destructive examination and testing of the CRDM nozzles of the Davis Besse reactor pressure vessel head. FENOC identified flaws in CRDM nozzles that required modification. The NRC was notified of these findings, along with federal, state and local officials. On March 17, 2010, the NRC sent a special inspection team to Davis Besse to assess the adequacy of FENOCs identification, analyses and resolution of the CRDM nozzle flaws and to ensure acceptable modifications were made prior to placing the RPV head back in service. After successfully completing the modifications, FENOC committed to take a number of corrective actions including strengthening leakage monitoring procedures and shutting Davis Besse down no later than October 1, 2011, to replace the reactor pressure vessel head with nozzles made of material less susceptible to primary water stress corrosion cracking, further enhancing the safe and reliable operations of the plant. On June 29, 2010, FENOC returned Davis Besse to service. On September 9, 2010, the NRC held a public exit meeting describing the results of the NRC special inspection team inspection of FENOCs identification of the CRDM nozzles with flaws and the modifications to those nozzles. On October 22, 2010, the NRC issued its final report of the special inspection. The report contained three findings characterized as very low safety significance that were promptly corrected prior to plant operation. On April 5, 2010, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) requested that the NRC issue a Show Cause Order, or otherwise delay the restart of the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station until the NRC determines that adequate protection standards have been met and reasonable assurance exists that these standards will continue to be met after the plants operation is resumed. By a letter dated July 13, 2010, the NRC denied UCSs request for immediate action because the NRC has conducted rigorous and independent assessments of returning the Davis Besse reactor vessel head to service and its continued operation, and determined that it was safe for the plant to restart. The UCS petition was referred to a petition manager for further review. What additional actions, if any, that the NRC takes in response to the UCS request have not been determined. Under NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had approximately $2 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI 2. FirstEnergy provides an additional $15 million parental guarantee associated with the funding of decommissioning costs for these units. As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts fluctuate based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergys obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and its effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the nuclear decommissioning trusts. The NRC issued guidance anticipating an increase in low level radioactive waste disposal costs associated the decommissioning of FirstEnergys nuclear facilities. As a result, FirstEnergys decommissioning funding obligations are expected to increase. FirstEnergy continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of these nuclear facilities. 94 Table of Contents On August 27, 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. On December 27 and 28, 2010, a group of petitioners filed a request for hearing contending that FENOC failed to adequately consider wind or solar generation, or some combination thereof, as an alternative to license extension at Davis Besse. They further argued FENOC had failed to adequately assess the cost of a severe accident at Davis Besse. FENOC and the NRC staff responded to this pleading on January 21, 2011, demonstrating that none of the petitioners arguments were admissible contentions under the National Environmental Policy Act or NRC regulations. An Atomic Safety and Licensing Board panel is expected to determine whether a hearing is necessary. Ohio Legal Matters On February 16, 2010, a class action lawsuit was filed in Geauga County Court of Common Pleas against FirstEnergy, CEI and OE seeking declaratory judgment and injunctive relief, as well as compensatory, incidental and consequential damages, on behalf of a class of customers related to the reduction of a discount that had previously been in place for residential customers with electric heating, electric water heating, or load management systems. The reduction in the discount was approved by the PUCO. On March 18, 2010, the named defendant companies filed a motion to dismiss the case due to the lack of jurisdiction of the court of common pleas. The court granted the motion to dismiss on September 7, 2010. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals of Ohio, which has not yet rendered an opinion. Other Legal Matters There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FirstEnergys normal business operations pending against FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described below. FirstEnergy accrues legal liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. If it were ultimately determined that FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on the above matters, it could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FirstEnergy prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Application of these principles often requires a high degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions that affect financial results. All of FirstEnergy assets are subject to specific risks and uncertainties and are regularly reviewed for impairment. FirstEnergys more significant accounting policies are described below. Revenue Recognition FirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class. Regulatory Accounting FirstEnergys energy delivery services segment is subject to regulation that sets the prices (rates) the Utilities are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine the Utilities are permitted to recover. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets based on anticipated future cash inflows. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Accounting FirstEnergys reported costs of providing noncontributory qualified and non qualified defined pension benefits and OPEB benefits other than pensions are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and certain assumptions. 95 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs are affected by employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions FirstEnergy makes to the plans and earnings on plan assets. Pension and OPEB costs may also be affected by changes to key assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, the discount rates and health care trend rates used in determining the projected benefit obligations for pension and OPEB costs. In accordance with GAAP, changes in pension and OPEB obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. GAAP delays recognition of changes due to the long term nature of pension and OPEB obligations and the varying market conditions likely to occur over long periods of time. As such, significant portions of pension and OPEB costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants and are significantly influenced by assumptions about future market conditions and plan participants experience. FirstEnergy recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet and recognize changes in funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. The underfunded status of FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB plans at December 31, 2010 was $1.7 billion. FirstEnergy voluntarily intends to contribute $250 million to its pension plan in 2011. In selecting an assumed discount rate, FirstEnergy considers currently available rates of return on high quality fixed income investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The assumed discount rates for pension were 5.50%, 6.00% and 7.00% for December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The assumed discount rates for OPEB were 5.00%, 5.75% and 7.0% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. FirstEnergys assumed rate of return on pension plan assets considers historical market returns and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the pension trusts. In 2010, FirstEnergys qualified pension and OPEB plan assets earned $492 million or 10.1% compared to amounts earned of $570 million or 13.6% in 2009. The qualified pension and OPEB costs in 2010 and 2009 were computed using an assumed 8.5% and 9.0% rate of return, respectively, on plan assets which generated $397 million and $379 million of expected returns on plan assets, respectively. The expected return of pension and OPEB assets is based on the trusts asset allocation targets and the historical performance of risk based and fixed income securities. The gains or losses generated as a result of the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets are deferred and amortized and will increase or decrease future net periodic pension and OPEB cost, respectively. FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB net periodic benefit cost was $138 million in 2010 compared to $197 million in 2009 and credits of $116 million in 2008. FirstEnergy expects the 2011 qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB costs (including amounts capitalized) to be $103 million. On June 2, 2009, FirstEnergy amended the health care benefits plan for all employees and retirees eligible that participate in that plan. The amendment, which reduces future health care coverage subsidies paid by FirstEnergy on behalf of participants, triggered a remeasurement of FirstEnergys other postretirement benefit plans as of May 31, 2009. On September 2, 2009, the Utilities and ATSI made a combined $500 million voluntary contribution to their qualified pension plan. Due to the significance of the voluntary contribution, FirstEnergy elected to remeasure the qualified pension plan as of August 31, 2009. In the third quarter of 2009, FirstEnergy also incurred a $13 million net postretirement benefit cost (including amounts capitalized) related to a liability created by the VERO offered by FirstEnergy to qualified employees. The special termination benefits of the VERO included additional health care coverage subsidies paid by FirstEnergy to those qualified employees who elected to retire. A total of 715 employees accepted the VERO. Health care cost trends continue to increase and will affect future OPEB costs. The 2010 composite health care trend rate assumptions were approximately 8 9%, compared to 8.5 10% in 2009, gradually decreasing to 5% in later years. In determining FirstEnergys trend rate assumptions, included are the specific provisions of FirstEnergys health care plans, the demographics and utilization rates of plan participants, actual cost increases experienced in FirstEnergys health care plans, and projections of future medical trend rates. The effect on the pension and OPEB costs from changes in key assumptions are as follows: Increase in Costs from Adverse Changes in Key Assumptions Assumption Adverse Change Pension OPEB Total (In millions) Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% $ 13 $ 1 $ 14 Long term return on assets Decrease by 0.25% $ 12 $ 1 $ 13 Health care trend rate Increase by 1% N/A $ 4 $ 4 96 Table of Contents Emission Allowances FirstEnergy holds emission allowances for SO2 and NOX in order to comply with programs implemented by the EPA designed to regulate emissions of SO2 and NOX produced by power plants. Emission allowances are either granted by the EPA at zero cost or are purchased at fair value as needed to meet emission requirements. Emission allowances are not purchased with the intent of resale. Emission allowances eligible to be used in the current year are recorded in materials and supplies inventory at the lesser of weighted average cost or market value. Emission allowances eligible for use in future years are recorded as other investments. FirstEnergy recognizes emission allowance costs as fuel expense during the periods that emissions are produced by generating facilities. Excess emission allowances that are not needed to meet emission requirements may be sold and are reported as a reduction to other operating expenses. Long Lived Assets FirstEnergy reviews long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of a long lived asset is measured by comparing the assets carrying value to the sum of undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted future cash flows of the long lived asset, impairment exists and a loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Asset Retirement Obligations FirstEnergy recognizes an ARO for the future decommissioning of FirstEnergys nuclear power plants and future remediation of other environmental liabilities associated with long lived assets. The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of the current obligation related to nuclear decommissioning and the retirement or remediation of environmental liabilities of other assets. A fair value measurement inherently involves uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability. FirstEnergy uses an expected cash flow approach to measure the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning and environmental remediation ARO. This approach applies probability weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes. The scenarios consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the nuclear power plants current license, settlement based on an extended license term and expected remediation dates. Income Taxes We record income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes. Investment tax credits, which were deferred when utilized, are being amortized over the recovery period of the related property. Deferred income tax liabilities related to tax and accounting basis differences and tax credit carryforward items are recognized at the statutory income tax rates in effect when the liabilities are expected to be paid. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on income tax rates expected to be in effect when they are settled. FirstEnergy accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in its financial statements. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. The Company recognizes interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions. That amount is computed by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized and the amount previously taken or expected to be taken on the tax return. FirstEnergy includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes. Goodwill In a business combination, the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. In accordance with accounting standards, if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value (including goodwill), the goodwill is tested for impairment. Impairment is indicated and a loss is recognized if the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value of its goodwill. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 97 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGY SOLUTIONS CORP. MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FES is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES provides energy related products and services, and through its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, owns or leases and operates and maintains FirstEnergys fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities, and owns FirstEnergys nuclear generation facilities, respectively. FENOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains the nuclear generating facilities. FES revenues during 2010 were derived from sales to individual retail customers, sales to communities in the form of government aggregation programs, the sale of electricity to Met Ed and Penelec to meet all of their POLR and default service requirements, and its participation in affiliated and non affiliated POLR auctions. FES sales were primarily concentrated in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey. Beginning in 2011, FES will not be required to supply Met Ed and Penelecs POLR and default service requirements as Met Ed and Penelec will procure power under their Default Service Plans in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions. The demand for electricity produced and sold by FES, along with the price of that electricity, is impacted by conditions in competitive power markets, global economic activity, economic activity in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions and weather conditions. For additional information with respect to FES, please see the information contained in FirstEnergy Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income decreased to $269 million in 2010 compared to $577 million in 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $384 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins. Revenues Excluding the impact of the OVEC sale in both years, total revenues increased $1,267 million in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in direct and government aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies and other wholesale sales. The increase in revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Direct and Government Aggregation $ 2,494 $ 779 $ 1,715 POLR 2,436 2,863 (427 ) Other Wholesale 550 632 (82 ) Transmission 77 73 4 RECs 74 17 57 Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167 ) Other 112 112 Total Revenues $ 5,828 $ 4,728 $ 1,100 98 Table of Contents Direct and government aggregation revenues increased by $1.7 billion due to the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new government aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to 600,000 of such customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009. The decrease in POLR revenues of $427 million was due to lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to the Pennsylvania Companies resulted from FES supplying Met Ed and Penelec with volumes previously supplied through a third party contract and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009. Other wholesale revenues decreased $82 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio, partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Direct and Government Aggregation (Decrease) (In millions) Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $ 1,083 Change in prices (82 ) 1,001 Government Aggregation Effect of increase in sales volumes 704 Change in prices 10 714 Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $ 1,715 Increase Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) POLR: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $ (153 ) Change in prices (274 ) (427 ) Other Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (105 ) Change in prices 23 (82 ) Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $ (509 ) 99 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table summarizes the factors contributing to the changes in fuel and purchased power costs in 2010 compared to 2009: Increase Source of Change in Fuel and Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Fossil Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs $ 34 Change due to volume consumed 207 241 Nuclear Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs 29 Change due to volume consumed 5 34 Non affiliated Purchased Power: Power contract mark to market adjustment (168 ) Change due to decreased unit costs (139 ) Change due to volume purchased 896 589 Affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to increased unit costs 101 Change due to volume purchased 47 148 Net Increase in Fuel and Purchased Power Costs $ 1,012 Fossil fuel costs increased $241 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Increased volumes consumed in 2010 were due to higher sales to direct and government aggregation customers as well as to improved economic conditions. The higher unit prices reflect higher coal transportation charges in 2010 compared to last year. Nuclear fuel costs increased $34 million primarily due to the replacement of nuclear fuel at higher unit costs following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010. Non affiliated purchased power costs increased $589 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec. Affiliated purchased power increased $148 million primarily due to higher unit costs combined with higher volumes purchased from affiliated companies. Other operating expenses increased $96 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the significant growth in FES retail business. Costs increased for transmission expenses, contractor expenses, associated company billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees. Those increases were partially offset by reduced generating plant operating costs due to lower labor and one less nuclear refueling outage in 2010. In 2010 impairment charges of long lived assets increased expenses by $384 million ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units in response to the continued slow economy, lower demand for electricity as well as uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Depreciation expense decreased $16 million principally due to reduced depreciable property associated with the impairments described above and sale of the Sumpter plant in early 2010. General taxes increased $7 million due to sales taxes associated with increased revenues. Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $94 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income of $66 million and a $32 million increase in interest expense (net of capitalized interest) from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010. 100 Table of Contents Market Risk Information FES uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk FES is exposed to financial and market risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices associated with electricity, energy transmission, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and emission allowances. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FES uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FES relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FES uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (115 ) 6 4 7 (98 ) Prices based on models (9 ) (9 ) Total $ (115 ) $ 6 $ 4 $ 7 $ $ (9 ) $ (107 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. FES performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $16 million ($10 million net of tax) during the next 12 months. Interest Rate Risk FES exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for FES investment portfolio and debt obligations. 101 Table of Contents Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 994 $ 994 $ 994 Average interest rate 10.1 % 10.1 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 158 $ 68 $ 75 $ 99 $ 450 $ 2,650 $ 3,500 $ 3,624 Average interest rate 4.6 % 9 % 9 % 7.3 % 5.1 % 5.2 % 5.3 % Variable rate $ 779 $ 779 $ 779 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 12 $ 12 $ 12 Average interest rate 0.6 % 0.6 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy NGCs nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in FESs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $1,139 million as of December 31, 2010. NGC recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trusts as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trusts or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. FES continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. FES engages in transactions for the purchase and sale of commodities including gas, electricity, coal and emission allowances. These transactions are often with major energy companies within the industry. FES maintains credit policies with respect to its counterparties to manage overall credit risk. This includes performing independent risk evaluations, actively monitoring portfolio trends and using collateral and contract provisions to mitigate exposure. As part of its credit program, FES aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (SP). As of December 31, 2010, the largest credit concentration was with J.P. Morgan Chase Co., which is currently rated investment grade, representing 3.3% of FES total approved credit risk. 102 Table of Contents OHIO EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. OE and its wholly owned subsidiary, Penn, conduct business in portions of Ohio and Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric distribution services. They provide generation services to those franchise customers electing to retain OE and Penn as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to OE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $35 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase primarily resulted from lower purchased power costs and other operating costs, partially offset by lower revenues and investment income. Revenues Revenues decreased $681 million, or 27%, in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to a decrease in generation revenues. Distribution revenues increased $6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due to higher residential revenues, partially offset by lower commercial and industrial revenues. Commercial and industrial revenues were primarily impacted by lower average unit prices, resulting from lower transmission rates in 2010. Residential distribution revenues increased due to higher average unit prices resulting from the 2009 ESP and higher KWH deliveries resulting from the warmer conditions (cooling degree days increased 88% in OEs service territory). Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major steel customers and automotive customers, reflecting improving economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 5.5 % Commercial 2.6 % Industrial 9.5 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 5.8 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 33 Commercial (7 ) Industrial (20 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 6 Retail generation revenues decreased $680 million primarily due to lower KWH sales in all customer classes. Lower KWH sales resulted principally from a 36% increase in customer shopping in 2010. That sales reduction was partially offset by increased weather related usage in 2010 as described above. Lower average unit pricing also contributed to the decrease as lower unit prices in the residential class were partially offset by higher unit prices in the commercial and industrial classes. 103 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (26.0 )% Commercial (58.0 )% Industrial (58.2 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (43.3 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (216 ) Commercial (266 ) Industrial (198 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (680 ) Expenses Total expenses decreased $752 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (635 ) Other operating expenses (97 ) Provision for depreciation (1 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net (31 ) General taxes 12 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (752 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower KWH purchases resulting from reduced requirements in 2010 and slightly lower unit costs. The decrease in other operating costs for 2010 was primarily due to lower MISO transmission expenses ($48 million) (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009), the absence in 2010 of costs associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs under OEs 2009 ESP ($18 million) and decreased labor expenses ($12 million). The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to lower MISO transmission cost amortization, partially offset by increased recovery of other regulatory assets. The increase in general taxes was primarily due to higher Ohio KWH taxes in 2010 as compared to 2009 and a $7.1 million Ohio KWH tax adjustment recognized in 2009 related to prior periods. Other Expense Other expense increased $21 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income. 104 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk OEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for OEs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 28 $ 31 $ 37 $ 42 $ 37 $ 138 $ 313 $ 365 Average interest rate 8.7 % 8.7 % 8.8 % 8.8 % 8.9 % 4 % 6.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 1,159 $ 1,159 $ 1,321 Average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % Short term Borrowings: $ 142 $ 142 $ 142 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in OEs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $126 million as of December 31, 2010. OE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trust as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees. OE continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 105 Table of Contents THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CEI is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. CEI conducts business in northeastern Ohio, providing regulated electric distribution services. CEI also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain CEI as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to CEI, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $84 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in earnings was primarily due to the absence in 2010 of one time regulatory charges recognized in 2009 and decreased purchased power costs, other operating costs and amortization, partially offset by decreased revenues and deferrals of new regulatory assets. Revenues Revenues decreased $455 million, or 27%, in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues. Distribution revenues decreased $87 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower average unit prices for all customer classes offset by increased KWH deliveries in all sectors. The lower average unit prices were the result of lower transition rates in 2010. Higher residential deliveries resulted from increased weather related usage in 2010, reflecting a 74% increase in cooling degree days, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days. Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major steel customers (101%) and automotive customers (6%), reflecting improved economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in the 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 5.5 % Commercial 2.9 % Industrial 10.9 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 7.0 % Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (4 ) Commercial (31 ) Industrial (52 ) Decrease in Distribution Revenues $ (87 ) Retail generation revenues decreased $359 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to lower KWH sales to all customer classes. Reduced KWH sales were primarily the result of a 45% increase in customer shopping. Lower KWH sales to residential customers were partially offset by increased KWH deliveries resulting from the previously discussed warmer weather. Decreased volumes were partially offset by higher average unit prices in all customer classes. Retail generation prices increased in 2010 as a result of the CBP auction for the service period beginning June 1, 2009. 106 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (50.3 )% Commercial (67.2 )% Industrial (44.5 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (51.7 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (96 ) Commercial (134 ) Industrial (129 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (359 ) Expenses Total expenses decreased $589 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (490 ) Other operating costs (31 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net (201 ) Deferral of new regulatory assets 135 General taxes (2 ) Net Decrease in Expenses $ (589 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 primarily due to the previously discussed lower KWH sales requirements. Other operating costs decreased due to lower transmission expenses (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009), labor and employee benefit expenses and the absence in 2010 of certain costs incurred in 2009 associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs. Decreased amortization of regulatory assets was due primarily to the 2009 impairment of CEIs Extended RTC regulatory asset of $216 million in accordance with the PUCO approved ESP. A decrease in the deferral of new regulatory assets was primarily due to CEIs contemporaneous recovery of purchased power costs in 2010. General taxes decreased primarily due to a 2010 favorable property tax settlement in Ohio. 107 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk CEI has little exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates because most of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for CEIs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 53 $ 66 $ 75 $ 80 $ 50 $ 16 $ 340 $ 381 Average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 8 % 7.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 22 $ 325 $ 26 $ 24 $ 1,456 $ 1,853 $ 2,035 Average interest rate 7.7 % 5.8 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 6.8 % 6.7 % Short term Borrowings: $ 106 $ 106 $ 106 Average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 108 Table of Contents THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. TE conducts business in northwestern Ohio, providing regulated electric distribution services. TE also provides generation services to those customers electing to retain TE as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to TE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $9 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to decreased net amortization of regulatory assets, purchased power and other operating costs, partially offset by an increase in interest expense and decreases in revenues and investment income. Revenues Revenues decreased $317 million, or 38%, in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues, partially offset by an increase in wholesale generation revenues. Distribution revenues decreased $23 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower unit prices, partially offset by higher KWH deliveries to all customer classes. Lower unit prices are primarily due to lower transmission rates. Higher KWH deliveries were influenced by weather related usage in 2010, reflecting an 85% increase in cooling degree days in TEs service territory, partially offset by a 6% decrease in heating degree days. Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major automotive customers and steel customers, reflecting improved economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 7.6 % Commercial 3.7 % Industrial 12.3 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 8.7 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 1 Commercial (6 ) Industrial (18 ) Net Decrease in Distribution Revenues $ (23 ) Retail generation revenues decreased $307 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower KWH sales to all customer classes and lower unit prices to industrial customers. Lower KWH sales to all customer classes were primarily the result of a 48% increase in customer shopping in 2010, partially offset by higher KWH deliveries resulting from the weather conditions described above. Lower unit prices for industrial customers were primarily due to the absence of TEs fuel cost recovery and rate stabilization riders that were effective from January through May 2009, partially offset by increased generation prices resulting from the CBP auction, effective June 1, 2009. 109 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (39.8 )% Commercial (69.6 )% Industrial (55.3 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (54.7 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (60 ) Commercial (112 ) Industrial (135 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (307 ) Wholesale revenues increased $9 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in KWH sales to NGC from TEs leasehold interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2 and higher unit prices. Expenses Total expenses decreased $353 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (285 ) Other operating expenses (34 ) Provision for depreciation 1 Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (39 ) General taxes 4 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (353 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 compared to 2009, due to lower volumes required as a result of decreased KWH sales. Other operating costs decreased primarily due to reduced transmission expense (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009) and lower costs associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to PUCO approved cost deferrals and lower MISO transmission cost amortization in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in general taxes was primarily due to higher Ohio KWH taxes in 2010 as compared to 2009 and a $3.5 million Ohio KWH tax adjustment recognized in 2009 related to prior periods. Other Expense Other expense increased $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to higher interest expense associated with the April 2009 issuance of $300 million senior secured notes and lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income. 110 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk TE has little exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates because most of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for TEs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 22 $ 25 $ 26 $ 24 $ 48 $ 145 $ 160 Average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 5 % 6.8 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 600 $ 600 $ 653 Average interest rate 6.7 % 6.7 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in TEs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $76 million as of December 31, 2010. TE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trust as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees. TE continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 111 Table of Contents JERSEY CENTRAL POWER LIGHT COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS JCPL is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. JCPL conducts business in New Jersey, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services. JCPL also procures generation services for franchise customers electing to retain JCPL as their power supplier. JCPL procures electric supply to serve its BGS customers through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU. For additional information with respect to JCPL, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income increased by $22 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues, lower purchased power costs and decreased net amortization of regulatory assets, partially offset by increased other operating costs. Revenues Revenues increased by $34 million, or 1%, in 2010 compared with 2009. The increase in revenues was primarily due to higher distribution, wholesale generation and other revenues, partially offset by a decrease in retail generation revenues. Distribution revenues increased by $62 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due to higher KWH deliveries in all customer classes. Increased usage was due to warmer weather and improved economic conditions in JCPLs service territory. Decreased composite unit prices in the commercial and industrial classes partially offset the increased volume. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Sales Increase Residential 8.5 % Commercial 2.6 % Industrial 1.6 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 5.0 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 58 Commercial 5 Industrial (1 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 62 In 2010, retail generation revenues decreased by $72 million due to lower KWH sales to the commercial and industrial classes, partially offset by higher KWH sales to the residential class. Lower sales to the commercial and industrial classes were primarily due to an increase in the number of shopping customers. Higher KWH sales to the residential class reflected increased weather related usage resulting from a 60% increase in cooling degree days in 2010, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days during the same period. 112 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Increase Retail Generation KWH Sales (Decrease) Residential 6.8 % Commercial (26.4 )% Industrial (22.4 )% Net Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (6.2 )% Increase Retail Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 85 Commercial (146 ) Industrial (11 ) Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (72 ) Wholesale generation revenues increased $27 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to higher wholesale energy prices. Other revenues increased $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in transition bond revenues as a result of higher KWH deliveries in all customer classes. Expenses Total expenses decreased $29 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (46 ) Other operating costs 34 Provision for depreciation 4 Amortization of regulatory assets, net (23 ) General taxes 2 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (29 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 primarily from reduced requirements due to lower retail generation sales. Other operating costs increased in 2010 primarily due to major storm clean up costs, partially offset by a favorable collective bargaining settlement that reduced expenses by $7 million in the second quarter of 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased in 2010 primarily due to the deferral of storm costs. 113 Table of Contents Market Risk Information JCPL uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk JCPL is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, JCPL uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, JCPL relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. JCPL uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (94 ) (47 ) (42 ) (34 ) (217 ) Prices based on models (11 ) 3 (8 ) Total(3) $ (94 ) $ (47 ) $ (42 ) $ (34 ) $ (11 ) $ 3 $ (225 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $225 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. JCPL performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on JCPLs consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on JCPLs net income for the next 12 months. Interest Rate Risk JCPLs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for JCPLs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 290 $ 290 $ 290 Average interest rate 3.7 % 3.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 32 $ 34 $ 36 $ 39 $ 41 $ 1,628 $ 1,810 $ 1,962 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.9 % 6 % 6.1 % 6 % 114 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in JCPLs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $185 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of JCPL is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $3 million was contributed to the JCPLs nuclear decommissioning trust to comply with regulatory requirements. JCPL continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 115 Table of Contents METROPOLITAN EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Met Ed is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Met Ed conducts business in eastern Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services. Met Ed also procures generation service for those customers electing to retain Met Ed as their power supplier. Met Ed purchased its POLR and default service requirements from FES through a fixed price wholesale power sales agreement in 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed procures power under its Default Service Plan in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions. As authorized by Met Eds Board of Directors, Met Ed repurchased 117,620 shares of the Companys common stock from its parent, FirstEnergy, for $150 million on January 28, 2011. For additional information with respect to Met Ed, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income increased by $2 million, or 4%, in 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased revenues and decreased amortization of net regulatory assets, partially offset by increased purchased power and other operating expenses. Revenues Revenue increased $130 million, or 8%, in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting higher distribution and generation revenues, partially offset by a decrease in transmission revenues. Distribution revenues increased $86 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to higher rates resulting from the annual update to Met Eds TSC rider effective June 1, 2010, partially offset by lower CTC rates for the residential class. Higher KWH deliveries to industrial customers were due to improved economic conditions in Met Eds service territory. Higher residential and commercial KWH deliveries reflect increased weather related usage due to a 59% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 3.8 % Commercial 3.1 % Industrial 4.6 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 3.8 % Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions) Residential $ 45 Commercial 28 Industrial 13 Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 86 In 2010, retail generation revenues increased $32 million due to higher composite unit prices and higher KWH sales to the residential customer class, partially offset by lower KWH sales to the commercial and industrial customer classes. The higher unit prices were primarily due to an increase in the generation rate effective January 1, 2010. Higher KWH sales to residential customers increased primarily due to weather related usage described above. Increased customer shopping in the commercial and industrial classes drove the lower KWH sales to those classes. 116 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Increase Retail Generation KWH Sales (Decrease) Residential 3.8 % Commercial (0.1 )% Industrial (2.8 )% Net Increase in Retail Generation Sales 0.8 % Increase Retail Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 36 Commercial Industrial (4 ) Net Increase in Retail Generation Revenues $ 32 Wholesale revenues increased $29 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily reflecting higher PJM capacity prices. Transmission revenues decreased $19 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to decreased Financial Transmission Rights revenues. Met Ed defers the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased $112 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ 54 Other operating costs 141 Provision for depreciation 1 Amortization of regulatory assets, net (84 ) Net Increase in Expenses $ 112 Purchased power costs increased $54 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to an increase in unit costs. Other operating costs increased $141 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses (see reference to deferral accounting above). The amortization of regulatory assets decreased $84 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher expense deferrals resulting from increased PJM transmission costs and reduced amortization due to decreasing regulatory asset balances. Other Expense Interest income decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to reduced CTC stranded asset balances. That impact was partially offset by lower interest expense due to a $100 million debt repayment in March 2010 and reduced borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. 117 Table of Contents Market Risk Information Med Ed uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk Met Ed is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Met Ed uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Met Ed relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Met Ed uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (53 ) (48 ) (4 ) (2 ) (107 ) Prices based on models 24 83 107 Total $ (53 ) $ (48 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ 24 $ 83 $ (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and Intercontinental Exchange quotes. Met Ed performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on Met Eds consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Met Eds net income for the next 12 months. 118 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Met Eds exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Met Eds investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 132 $ 132 $ 132 Average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 150 $ 250 $ 314 $ 714 $ 793 Average interest rate 5.0 % 4.9 % 7.6 % 6.1 % Variable rate $ 29 $ 29 $ 29 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 124 $ 124 $ 124 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Met Eds nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $298 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $16 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of Med Ed is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $3 million was contributed to the Met Eds nuclear decommissioning trust to comply with regulatory requirements. Met Ed continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 119 Table of Contents PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Penelec is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Penelec conducts business in northern and south central Pennsylvania, providing regulated transmission and distribution services. Penelec also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain Penelec as their power supplier. Penelec purchased its POLR and default service requirements from FES through a fixed price wholesale power sales agreement in 2010. Beginning in 2011, Penelec procures power under its Default Service Plan in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, applicable Transmission Services) are procured through descending clock auctions. For additional information with respect to Penelec, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income decreased by $6 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to higher purchased power costs, other operating costs and interest expense, partially offset by higher revenues and net deferral of regulatory assets. Revenues Revenues increased by $91 million, or 6%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher generation revenues, partially offset by lower distribution and transmission revenues. Distribution revenues increased by $1 million in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in the universal service and energy efficiency rates for the residential customer class and increased KWH sales in all customer classes, partially offset by a decrease in the CTC rate in all customer classes. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 3.9 % Commercial 3.5 % Industrial 4.8 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 4.0 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 28 Commercial (16 ) Industrial (11 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 1 Retail generation revenues increased $80 million in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to higher unit prices and higher KWH sales in all customer classes. The higher unit prices were primarily due to an increase in the generation rate, effective January 1, 2010. Higher KWH sales to industrial customers were due to improved economic conditions in Penelecs service territory. Higher KWH sales to residential and commercial customers resulted primarily from weather related usage, reflecting a 94% increase in cooling degree days in 2010, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. 120 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Increase Residential 3.9 % Commercial 2.7 % Industrial 5.6 % Increase in Retail Generation Sales 3.9 % Retail Generation Revenues Increase (In millions) Residential $ 22 Commercial 30 Industrial 28 Increase in Retail Generation Revenues $ 80 Wholesale generation revenues increased $33 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to higher PJM capacity prices. Transmission revenues decreased by $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower Financial Transmission Rights revenue. Penelec defers the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased $89 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ 121 Other operating costs 60 Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (91 ) General taxes (1 ) Net Increase in Expenses $ 89 Purchased power costs increased $121 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in unit costs and increased volumes purchased to source increased generation sales requirements. Other operating costs increased $60 million in 2010, primarily due to higher transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses (see reference to deferral accounting above). The amortization (deferral) of net regulatory assets decreased $91 million in 2010, primarily due to increased cost deferrals resulting from higher transmission expenses and decreased amortization of regulatory assets resulting from lower CTC revenues. General taxes decreased $1 million primarily due to a favorable ruling on a property tax appeal in the first quarter of 2010. Other Expense In 2010, other expense increased $15 million primarily due to an increase in interest expense on long term debt as a result of a $500 million debt issuance in September 2009. 121 Table of Contents Market Risk Information Penelec uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight to risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Penelec is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Penelec uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Penelec relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Penelec uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (69 ) (68 ) (10 ) (7 ) (154 ) Prices based on models 11 33 44 Total(3) $ (69 ) $ (68 ) $ (10 ) $ (7 ) $ 11 $ 33 $ (110 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $110 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. Penelec performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on Penelecs consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Penelecs net income for the next 12 months. 122 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Penelecs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Penelecs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 149 $ 149 $ 149 Average interest rate 1.7 % 1.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 150 $ 950 $ 1,100 $ 1,169 Average interest rate 5.1 % 5.8 % 5.7 % Variable rate $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 101 $ 101 $ 101 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Penelecs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $156 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in an $8 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of Penelecs is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Penelec continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 123 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by ITEM 7A relating to market risk is set forth in ITEM 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF REGISTRANT AND SUBSIDIARIES Forward Looking Statements: This Form 10 K includes forward looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: The speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. The impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business. Business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins. Changes in markets for energy services. Changing energy and commodity market prices and availability. Financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged. The continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs. Operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated. Other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission and coal combustion residual regulations. The potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR. The uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to resolve any NSR litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units). Adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC. Adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania. Any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labors notice of a potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No.1. The continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity. The ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates. Changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates. The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives). The ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business. The changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated. The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital. Changes in general economic conditions affecting the registrants. The state of the capital and credit markets affecting the registrants. Interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect the registrants access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees. The continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the registrants major industrial and commercial customers. Issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which the registrants do business. The expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of managements time and attention from FirstEnergys ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect. The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 45 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGY CORP. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. in 2010 were $784 million, or basic earnings of $2.58 per share of common stock ($2.57 diluted), compared with $1.01 billion, or basic earnings of $3.31 per share of common stock ($3.29 diluted), in 2009 and $1.34 billion, or basic earnings of $4.41 per share ($4.38 diluted), in 2008. Change in Basic Earnings Per Share From Prior Year 2010 2009 Basic Earnings Per Share Prior Year $ 3.31 $ 4.41 Non core asset sales/impairments (0.37 ) 0.47 Generating plant impairments (0.77 ) Litigation settlement 0.04 (0.03 ) Trust securities impairments 0.03 0.16 Regulatory charges 0.45 (0.55 ) Derivative mark to market adjustment 0.35 (0.42 ) Organizational restructuring 0.14 (0.14 ) Debt redemption premium 0.32 (0.31 ) Merger transaction costs 2010 (0.16 ) Income tax resolution (0.57 ) 0.68 Revenues 1.06 (1.85 ) Fuel and purchased power (0.68 ) (0.09 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net 0.22 (0.02 ) Investment income (0.20 ) 0.20 Interest expense (0.14 ) Transmission expense (0.20 ) 0.73 Other expenses (0.39 ) 0.21 Basic Earnings Per Share $ 2.58 $ 3.31 2010 was a transformational year for FirstEnergy, and one in which we built a strong foundation for future success. On February 11, 2010, FirstEnergy and Allegheny announced a proposed merger that would create the nations largest electric utility system, with: more than 6 million customers across ten regulated electric distribution subsidiaries in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and West Virginia, generation subsidiaries owning or controlling approximately 24,000 MWs of generating capacity from a diversified mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable power, and transmission subsidiaries owning over 20,000 miles of high voltage lines connecting the Midwest and Mid Atlantic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger, Allegheny shareholders would receive 0.667 of a share of FirstEnergy common stock in exchange for each share of Allegheny they own. 2010 also marked FirstEnergys final transition year to competitive markets with the expiration of the rate cap on Met Ed and Penelecs retail generation rates on December 31, 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed and Penelec obtain their power supply from the competitive wholesale market and fully recover their generation costs through retail rates. All of FirstEnergys other regulated utilities previously transitioned to competitive generation markets. The effects of the uncertainty in the U.S. economy continue to present challenges. Although economic recovery began across our service territories, power sales and deliveries have still not returned to pre recessionary levels. Distribution deliveries in 2010 were 108.0 million MWH, compared with 102.3 million MWH in 2009, driven primarily by an 8.4% increase in deliveries to the industrial sector, with the largest gains from customers in the automotive and steel industries. Industrial usage is lagging pre recessionary levels by approximately 11%. Residential sales were up 6%, primarily due to warmer weather during the summer of 2010. Wholesale power prices continued to be weak; however, generation output improved in 2010 with output of 74.9 million MWH compared to the 2009 output of 65.6 million MWH. In the second half of 2010, FES entered into financial transactions that offset the mark to market impact of 500 MW of legacy purchased power contracts which were entered into in 2008 for delivery in 2010 and 2011 and which were marked to market beginning in December 2009. These financial transactions eliminate the volatility in GAAP earnings associated with marking these contracts to market through the end of 2011. 46 Table of Contents FES continued implementation of its retail strategy by focusing on direct, governmental aggregation and POLR sales opportunities. As of February 8, 2011, FES committed sales (as a percentage of total projected sales) for 2011 and 2012 were 96% and 65% respectively. Operational Matters PJM RTO Integration In March 2010 two FRR Integration Auctions were conducted by PJM on behalf of the Ohio Companies to secure electric capacity for delivery years June 1, 2011, through May 31, 2012, and June 1, 2012, through May 31, 2013. In the 2011/2012 auction, 27 suppliers participated and 12,583 MW of unforced capacity (the MW bid into the auction after adjusting for historical forced outage rates) cleared at a price of $108.89/MW day. The 2012/2013 auction had 28 market participants, with 13,038 MW of unforced capacity clearing at a price of $20.46/MW day. FirstEnergy plans to integrate its operations into PJM by June 1, 2011. Nuclear Generation On February 28, 2010, the Davis Besse Nuclear Plant (908 MW) shut down for its 16th scheduled refueling outage to exchange 76 of 177 fuel assemblies and to conduct numerous safety inspections. During the outage, it was determined through testing that modification work also needed to be performed on certain CRDM nozzles that penetrate the reactor vessel head. Modifications of 24 of the 69 nozzles on the reactor head were completed and Davis Besse returned to service on June 29, 2010. The plant was originally scheduled to have a new reactor vessel head installed in 2014. This timeline was voluntarily accelerated, and FirstEnergy plans to install the new reactor head in the fall of 2011. On August 30, 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse operating license. In a letter dated October 18, 2010, the NRC determined that the Davis Besse license renewal application was complete and acceptable for docketing and further review. Davis Besse currently is licensed until 2017; if approved, the renewal would extend operations for an additional 20 years, until 2037. On October 2, 2010, Beaver Valley Nuclear Power Station Unit 1 (911 MW) began its scheduled refueling and maintenance outage. During the outage FENOC exchanged 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies, conducted safety inspections and performed routine maintenance work. The plant returned to service on November 4, 2010. Coal and Gas Fired Generation On March 31, 2010, FGCO closed the sale of its 340 MW Sumpter Plant in Sumpter, Michigan, to Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc. FirstEnergy recorded a $6 million impairment of the Sumpter plant in December 2009 and a loss of $9 million with the sale in the first quarter of 2010. The plant consists of four 85 MW natural gas turbines and represented FirstEnergys only generation assets in Michigan. On August 12, 2010, FirstEnergy announced that operational changes would be made to some of the smaller coal fired units in response to the slow economy, the lower demand for electricity and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Beginning September 2010, Bay Shore units 2 4, Eastlake units 1 4, the Lake Shore Plant, and the Ashtabula Plant, which total 1,620 MW of capacity, began operating with minimum three day notice and in response to consumer demand. FGCO recognized an impairment of $303 million ($190 million after tax) related to these assets in 2010. On November 17, 2010, we announced plans to cancel repowering Units 4 and 5 (312 MW) at the R.E. Burger Plant to generate electricity principally with biomass. FGCO recognized an impairment of $72 million ($45 million after tax) and permanently shut down these units on December 31, 2010, due to the current market conditions. During the third quarter of 2010, FGCO re evaluated the schedule for completing the Fremont Plant (707 MW) due to market conditions and the extension of the tax incentives included in the Small Business legislation through 2011. As a result, FGCO extended the plants expected completion to December 31, 2011, to reduce overtime labor cost and outside contractor spend for the remainder of the project. On February 3, 2011, FirstEnergy and American Municipal Power, Inc., entered into a non binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the sale of our Fremont Energy Center. The MOU provides, among other things, for the parties to engage in exclusive negotiations towards a definitive agreement expected to be executed in March, 2011, with a targeted closing date in July, 2011. On December 28, 2010, FirstEnergy closed the sale of 6.65% of FGCOs participation interest in the output of OVEC (approximately 150 MW) to Peninsula Generation Cooperative, a subsidiary of Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc., effective December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys remaining interest in OVEC is 4.85%. The gain from this transaction increased 2010 net income by $53.8 million. The Signal Peak coal mining operation in Montana, a joint venture owned 50% by FirstEnergy, began production in December 2009, providing FirstEnergy flexibility with respect to coal commodity supply for its fossil generation fleet. As part of this transaction, we also entered into a 15 year agreement to purchase up to 10 million tons of coal annually from the mine, securing a long term western fuel supply at attractive prices. Signal Peak provides us with optionality to either burn its western coal in our units, or sell the coal through the venture to other domestic or international buyers. 47 Table of Contents Finally, in 2010 we completed a $1.8 billion environmental retrofit of the W.H. Sammis Plant in Stratton, Ohio. This project was designed to reduce SO2 emissions by 95% at the plant and NOx emissions by 90% at its two largest units. This project was among the largest AQC retrofits ever completed in the United States. Ohio Wind Power Project On February 8, 2011, FES announced its agreement to purchase 100 MW of output from Blue Creek Wind Farm (304 MW), which is being built in western Ohio by Iberdrola Renewables. Under terms of the agreement FES will purchase 100 MW of the total output of the project for 20 years beginning in October 2012. Financial Matters Cash flow from operations in 2010 was at a record level of $3.1 billion. During the year we also completed refinancing $725 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. In April and June of 2010, FGCO, a subsidiary of FES, purchased $235 million of variable rate PCRBs and $15 million of fixed rate PCRBs, respectively, originally issued on its behalf. In August of 2010, FES completed the remarketing of the $250 million of PCRBs; $235 million were successfully converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate and the remaining $15 million of PCRBs remain in a fixed rate mode. The $235 million series now bears a per annum rate of 2.25% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 3, 2013. The $15 million series now bears a per annum rate of 1.5% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 1, 2011. Subsequently, in October of 2010, FES completed the refinancing and remarketing of six series of PCRBs totaling $313 million. These series were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate of 3.375% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase on July 1, 2015. On December 3, 2010, FES and Penelec completed the refinancing and remarketing of five series of PCRBs totaling $178 million. These series were converted from variable rate to fixed interest rates ranging from 2.25% to 3.75% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase. In May of 2010, FirstEnergy terminated fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $3.2 billion, which resulted in cash proceeds of $43.1 million. As of June 30, 2010, the debt underlying the $3.2 billion outstanding notional amount of interest rate swaps had a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6%, which the swaps converted to a current weighted average variable rate of 4%. On July 16, 2010, FirstEnergy terminated these fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements resulting in cash proceeds of $83.6 million. The related gain from both of those transactions will generally be amortized to earnings over the life of the underlying debt. As of December 31, 2010, there were no fixed to floating swaps hedging the consolidated interest rate risk associated with FirstEnergys consolidated debt. On June 1, 2010, Penn redeemed $1 million of 5.40% PCRBs, due 2013, and on July 30, 2010, redeemed $6.5 million of its 7.65% FMBs due in 2023. On October 22, 2010, Signal Peak Energy and Global Rail Group, as borrowers, entered into a new $350 million senior secured term loan facility. The two year syndicated bank loan is guaranteed by FirstEnergy and the other owners of the borrowers. The proceeds from the loan were used to repay bank borrowings ($63 million) and debt owed to FirstEnergy ($258 million) with the balance to be used for other general corporate purposes. In February 2010, SP issued a report lowering FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. Moodys and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. These rating agency actions were taken in response to the announcement of the proposed merger with Allegheny. On September 28, 2010 SP affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FE and its subsidiaries. On December 15, 2010, Fitch revised its outlook on FirstEnergy and FES from stable to negative and affirmed the rating for FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. Regulatory Matters Ohio ESP The Ohio Companies will be operating under a new ESP effective June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2014, which was filed in March 2010 and approved by the PUCO in August 2010. That ESP provides customers with no overall increase to base distribution rates during the plan period and limits the costs they will pay related to certain PJM transmission projects. The ESP provides the Ohio Companies with recovery of capital invested in their distribution businesses through a Delivery Capital Recovery Rider effective January 1, 2012, through May 31, 2014. Generation rates for the annual delivery periods during the plan are determined through a CBP which will be conducted every October and January for generation service through May 31, 2014. The first two CBPs were conducted in October 2010 and January 2011. Both auctions consisted of one, two and three year products. The results of these auctions were accepted by the PUCO. The next auction is scheduled for October 2011. 48 Table of Contents Pennsylvania Default Service Plan On October 20, 2010, the PPUC approved the results of various auctions held to procure the default service requirements for Met Ed and Penelec customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier. The auction was the last of four auctions for the five month period of January 1, 2011 to May 31, 2011, and the second of four auctions to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013. The PPUC also approved the default service RFP for the Residential Fixed Block On Peak and Off Peak energy products. On January 18 20, 2011, Met Ed, Penelec and Penn conducted auctions to procure a portion of the default service requirements for their customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier. The January 2011 auction was the third of four auctions for Met Ed and Penelec and the first of two auctions for Penn to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013. For Met Ed, Penelec and Penn commercial customers the tranche weighted average price ($/MWH) was $69.97, $59.32 and $57.88, respectively, and for residential customers the tranche weighted average price was $70.69, $59.74 and $55.39, respectively. This was also the first of two auctions held to procure residential service requirements for the 12 month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012. For Met Ed, Penelec and Penn residential customers the tranche weighted average price ($/MWH) was $67.43, $58.01 and $60.29, respectively. In addition, the January 2011 auction procured supply for Met Ed and Penelec industrial customers Hourly Priced Default Service. For Met Ed and Penelec, the average 12 month price ($/MWH) was $9.90 and $9.91, respectively. The PPUC approved the results of the January 2011 auctions on January 24, 2011. Penn Powers settlement for approval of its Default Service Plan for the period of June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013 was approved by the PPUC on October 21, 2010. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs. Energy Efficiency, Smart Grid and Smart Meter Programs On June 3, 2010, FirstEnergy and the DOE signed grants totaling $57.4 million that were awarded as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to introduce smart grid technologies in targeted areas in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New Jersey. The DOE grants represent 50% of the funding for approximately $115 million FirstEnergy plans to invest in smart grid technologies. The PPUC, PUCO and NJBPU have approved recovery of the remaining costs not funded through the DOE grant for the smart grid programs in Pennsylvania, Ohio and New Jersey, respectively, and the programs are underway in all three states. Pennsylvanias Act 129 (Act 129) requires all Pennsylvania electric distribution companies with more than 100,000 customers to install smart meter technology within 15 years. On April 15, 2010, the PPUC adopted a Motion by Chairman Cawley that modified the ALJs initial decision issued on January 28, 2010 and decided various issues regarding the SMIP for the Pennsylvania Companies. An order consistent with Chairman Cawleys Motion was entered on June 9, 2010. The companies filed a petition for reconsideration on a single portion of the order, and on August 5, 2010, the PPUC entered an order granting in part the petition for reconsideration. The Pennsylvania Companies SMIP will assess the technologies, vendors, capital cost, and potential benefits of smart meter technology during an assessment period that covers the next 24 months. The Pennsylvania Companies expect to incur approximately $29.5 million of costs during the assessment period which they expect to recover through the Smart Meter Technologies Charge rider. At the end of the assessment period, the Pennsylvania Companies will submit to the PPUC a deployment plan for the full scale deployment of smart meters. The costs to implement the SMIP could be material. However, assuming these costs satisfy a just and reasonable standard they are expected to be recovered in a rider (Smart Meter Technologies Charge Rider) which was approved when the PPUC approved the SMIP. Act 129 also requires utilities to reduce energy consumption and peak demand, with electricity consumption reduction targets of 1% by May 31, 2011, and 3% by May 31, 2013, and a peak demand reduction target of 4.5% by May 31, 2013. The Pennsylvania Companies responded by offering a wide variety of programs to residential, commercial, industrial, governmental and non profit customers through their PPUC approved EEC Plans. JCPL Rate Adjustment JCPL is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which its costs of supplying BGS to non shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG agreements, and certain other stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy and capacity. As of December 31, 2010, the accumulated deferred cost balance was a credit of approximately $37 million. To better align the recovery of expected costs, on July 26, 2010, JCPL filed a request to decrease the amount recovered for the costs incurred under the NUG agreements by $180 million annually. On February 10, 2011, the NJBPU approved a stipulation which allows the change in rates to become effective March 1, 2011. On January 18, 2011, JCPL provided information to the NJBPU regarding the proposed merger between FirstEnergy and Allegheny. A stipulation between JCPL, Board Staff and Rate Counsel was also provided. The Board reviewed the Stipulation at its January 25, 2011 meeting and issued an Order on February 10, 2011 indicating that it did not object to the transaction proceeding. 49 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGYS BUSINESS We are a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio, that operates primarily through two core business segments (see Results of Operations). Energy Delivery Services transmits and distributes electricity through our seven utility distribution companies and ATSI, serving 4.5 million customers within 36,100 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. This segment also purchases power for its POLR and default service requirements in all three states. Its revenues are primarily derived from the delivery of electricity within our service areas and the sale of electric generation service to retail customers who have not selected an alternative supplier (default service) in its Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey franchise areas. Its results reflect the commodity costs of securing electric generation from FES and from non affiliated power suppliers, the net PJM and MISO transmission expenses related to the delivery of the respective generation loads, and the deferral and amortization of certain fuel costs. The service areas of our utilities are summarized below: Company Area Served Customers Served OE Central and Northeastern Ohio 1,037,000 Penn Western Pennsylvania 160,000 CEI Northeastern Ohio 751,000 TE Northwestern Ohio 310,000 JCPL Northern, Western and East Central New Jersey 1,098,000 Met Ed Eastern Pennsylvania 553,000 Penelec Western Pennsylvania 591,000 ATSI Service areas of OE, Penn, CEI and TE Competitive Energy Services segment supplies electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey. This business segment controls 13,236 MWs of capacity and also purchases electricity to meet sales obligations. The segments net income is primarily derived from affiliated and non affiliated electric generation sales revenues less the related costs of electricity generation, including purchased power and net transmission (including congestion) and ancillary costs charged by PJM and MISO to deliver energy to the segments customers. STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK FirstEnergys vision is to be a leading regional energy provider, recognized for operational excellence, outstanding customer service and our commitment to safety; the choice for long term growth, investment value and financial strength; and a company driven by the leadership, skills, diversity and character of our employees. Our near term focus is on getting the merger closed and then successfully managing the merger integration process and capturing long term value to benefit our customers, shareholders and employees. The merger integration process is underway and is expected to create significant efficiencies and economies of scale as we share best practices across the new organization. Merger integration teams comprised of employees from both FirstEnergy and Allegheny began working in April 2010 to identify value drivers and estimate transaction benefits. The proposed merger is a natural geographic fit that would bring together complementary assets and corporate cultures and create a strong company that is well positioned for growth. Our strength is the diversity of our assets, and our strategic focus is on creating long term value through our core operations distribution operations, transmission operations and competitive generation and retail operations. In our distribution operations, we remain focused on reliability, customer service and safety, and maintaining stable earnings growth. Our combined company will be committed to meeting regulatory expectations and leveraging best practices across seven states and ten operating utilities. FirstEnergys management structure and philosophy supports local authority and decision making by maintaining a local presence, which includes regional offices for our utility operations. 50 Table of Contents Presently, our competitive generation portfolio of 13,236 MW contains a diverse mix of quality assets, including nuclear, coal, natural gas, wind and pumped storage. In response to reduced customer demand and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations, FirstEnergy announced in August 2010 operational changes at several fossil plants. Affected are nine units at four plants located on the shore of Lake Erie in Ohio, with 1,620 MW of total capacity. In September 2010, the units began operating with a minimum three day notice and in response to customer demand. These operational changes provide future flexibility regarding potential plant retirements given the current ongoing uncertainty regarding future EPA mandates or environmental legislation. (see Environmental Outlook below). We plan to make a similar evaluation of Alleghenys fossil assets once the merger is completed; however, because most of Alleghenys supercritical units have already been retrofitted with environmental control equipment, it is the bulk of their older, regulated subcritical units that are most exposed to potential regulations. In the fall of 2011, we plan to replace Davis Besses reactor vessel head, accelerating the original replacement scheduled in 2014. We expect this proactive approach to provide additional margins of safety and reliability. Construction continues on our Fremont Energy Center, which includes two natural gas combined cycle combustion turbines and a steam turbine capable of producing 544 MW of load following capacity and 163 MW of peaking capacity. We expect to complete construction of this facility by the end of 2011. On February 3, 2011, FirstEnergy and American Municipal Power, Inc. (AMP), entered into a non binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the sale of our Fremont Energy Center. The MOU provides, among other things, for the parties to engage in exclusive negotiations towards a definitive agreement expected to be executed in March, 2011, with a targeted closing date in July, 2011. In addition to Fremont, Signal Peak has been identified as a non strategic asset that could be made available for sale. FirstEnergy has identified potential post merger benefits in the competitive generation and retail business mostly related to expanding the FirstEnergy operating philosophy and model to the combined operation. These include: Economies of scale and best practices related to fuel procurement and transportation; Expanded use of fuel blending techniques; Generation asset reliability improvement; Dispatch optimization; Outage best practices; and Expansion of the retail sales growth strategy. Our strategy is to sell our own physical generation output to sales channels in close proximity to our fleet at the highest achievable margins. Our retail business remains a key component of our strategy. FES continues to expand its regional reach through retail sales by using its competitive generation assets to back POLR, governmental aggregation and direct sales commitments. Wholesale power prices remain under pressure in response to continued low gas prices, but we expect future improvements in power prices to benefit the combined fleet. 51 Table of Contents Financial Outlook We remain committed to managing our operating and capital costs in order to achieve our financial goals and commitment to shareholders. Our liquidity position remains strong, with access to more than $3.2 billion of liquidity, of which approximately $3.1 billion was available as of January 31, 2011. Capital expenditures in 2011 are projected to be $1.4 billion, compared to $1.8 billion in 2010. We intend to continue to fund our capital requirements through cash generated from operations. Positive earnings drivers for 2011 are expected to include: Increased retail revenues associated with FES POLR, governmental aggregation and direct sales; Reduced fuel expenses; and Increased margin from Signal Peak. Negative earnings drivers for 2011 are expected to include: Decreased revenues associated with the expiration of the Met Ed/Penelec partial requirements agreement with FES; Increase in net ancillary, congestion, and capacity expenses; Increased purchased power expenses; Additional planned nuclear outage for Davis Besses reactor head replacement; and Increased depreciation expenses and reduced capitalized interest, primarily associated with the Sammis plant environmental project. Distribution deliveries and non fuel, non outage OM expenses including employee benefits are expected to be essentially flat in 2011 compared to 2010. FirstEnergys $2.75 billion revolving credit facility matures in August 2012. We intend to review our revolving credit facility needs post merger and at a minimum anticipate pursuing renewal of the existing facility during the first half of 2011. In December 2010, a new federal income tax law became effective that provides for bonus depreciation tax benefits. This new law is expected to provide approximately $500 million in additional cash to FirstEnergy through 2012. We remain focused on liquidity and a strong balance sheet, as well as maintaining investment grade credit ratings. Our financial plan accelerates our goal of improving our financial strength and flexibility by significantly reducing debt by the end of 2012. In addition to cash generated from operations, we expect to deploy cash received through bonus depreciation tax benefits, as well as cash from the future sale of certain non core assets, to this debt reduction initiative. These actions are expected to improve our credit metrics over the next several years. Capital Expenditures Outlook Our capital expenditure forecast for 2011 is projected to be $1.4 billion, which represents a $393 million decrease from 2010. The main drivers of this decrease are the 2010 completion of the $1.8 billion Sammis AQC environmental compliance project and reduced spending for the Fremont facility, scheduled for completion in 2011. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for our competitive energy services business (excluding the AQC project and Fremont facility) are expected to increase slightly in 2011. The primary cause is the previously announced decision to accelerate the replacement of the Davis Besse nuclear reactor vessel head. This initiative began in 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2011. Other planned generation investments provide for maintenance of critical generation assets, deliver operational improvements to enhance reliability, and support our generation to market strategy. For our regulated operations, capital expenditures are forecasted at $730 million in 2011. Approximately $100 million has been allocated to the transmission expansion initiative, which includes projects to satisfy transmission capacity and reliability requirements, transitioning to the PJM market, and connecting new load delivery and new wholesale generation points. Expenditures for Ohio and Pennsylvania energy efficiency and advanced metering initiatives are expected to be primarily reimbursed from distribution customers and federal stimulus funding. Other investments for transmission and distribution infrastructure are designed to achieve cost effective improvements in the reliability of our service. For 2012 and 2013 we anticipate average annual baseline capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion, exclusive of any additional opportunities or future mandated spending. Planned capital initiatives promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Actual capital spending for 2010 and projected capital spending for 2011 are as follows: Capital Spending by Business Unit 2010 2011 (In millions) Energy Delivery $ 729 $ 630 Nuclear 324 320 Fossil 174 160 FES Other 21 10 Corporate 59 50 AQC 249 4 Baseline Capital Expenditures $ 1,556 $ 1,174 Fremont Facility 148 56 Burger Biomass 7 Transmission Expansion 79 100 Davis Besse Reactor Vessel Head Replacement 23 90 $ 1,813 $ 1,420 Environmental Outlook At FirstEnergy, we continually strive to enhance environmental protection and remain good stewards of our natural resources. We devote significant resources to environmental compliance efforts, and our employees share a commitment to, and accountability for, environmental performance. Our corporate focus on continuous improvement is integral to our environmental programs. We have spent more than $7 billion on environmental protection efforts since the initial passage of the Clean Air and Water Acts in the 1970s, and these investments are making a difference. Over the past five years, we have invested approximately $1.8 billion at our W.H. Sammis Plant in Stratton, Ohio, to further reduce emissions of SO2 by over 95% and NOx by at least 64%. This is one of the largest environmental retrofit projects in the nation and was recognized by Platts as the 2010 construction project of the year. Since 1990, we have reduced emissions of NOx by more than 83%, SO2 by more than 82%, and mercury by about 60%. Also, our CO2 emission rate, in pounds of CO2 per kWh, has dropped by 19% during this period. Emission rates for our power plants are lower than the regional average. By the end of 2011, we expect approximately 70% of our generation fleet to be non emitting or low emitting generation. Over 52% of our coal fired generating fleet will have full NOx and SO2 equipment controls thus significantly decreasing our exposure to future environmental requirements. One of the key issues facing our company and industry is global climate change related mandates. Lawmakers at the state and federal levels are exploring and implementing a wide range of responses. We believe our generation fleet is very well positioned to compete in a carbon constrained economy. In addition, we believe that upon consummation of the proposed merger with Allegheny, our competitive position will be enhanced with an even more diverse mix of fully scrubbed fossil generation, non emitting nuclear and renewable generation, including large scale storage. 53 Table of Contents We have taken aggressive steps over the past two decades that have increased our generating capacity without adding to overall CO2 emissions. For example, since 1990, we have reconfigured our fleet by retiring nearly 1,000 MWs of older, coal based generation and adding more than 1,800 MWs of non emitting nuclear capacity. Through these and other actions, we have increased our generating capacity by nearly 15% over the same period while avoiding some 350 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. Today, nearly 40% of our electricity is generated without emitting CO2 a key advantage that will help us meet the challenge of future governmental climate change mandates. And with recent announcements in 2009, including the expanded use of renewable energy, energy storage and natural gas, our CO2 emission rate will decline even further in the future. We have taken a leadership role in pursuing new ventures and testing and developing new technologies that show promise in achieving additional reductions in CO2 emissions. These include: Sales of over 1 million MWH per year of wind generation. Testing of CO2 sequestration to gain a better understanding of the potential for geological storage of CO2. Supporting afforestation growing forests on non forested land and other efforts designed to remove CO2 from the environment. Reducing emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) by nearly 15 metric tons, resulting in an equivalent reduction of nearly 315,000 metric tons of CO2, through the EPAs SF6 Emissions Reduction Partnership for Electric Power Systems. Supporting research to develop and evaluate cost effective sorbent materials for CO2 capture including work by Powerspan at the Burger Plant, The University of Akron and the EPRI. We remain actively engaged in the federal and state debate over future environmental requirements and legislation, especially those dealing with global climate change, hazardous air pollutants, coal combustion residues and water effluent discharges. We are committed to working with policy makers and regulators to develop fair and reasonable requirements, with the goal of reducing emissions while minimizing the economic impact on our customers. Due to the significant uncertainty as to the final form or timing of any such legislation and regulation at both the federal and state levels, we are unable to determine the potential impact and risks associated with future emissions requirements. We also have a long history of supporting research in distributed energy resources. Distributed energy resources include fuel cells, solar and wind systems or energy storage technologies located close to the customer or direct control of customer loads to provide alternatives or enhancements to the traditional electric power system. We are testing the worlds largest utility scale fuel cell system at our Eastlake power plant to determine its feasibility for augmenting generating capacity during summer peak use periods. Through a partnership with EPRI, the Cuyahoga Valley National Park, the Department of Defense and Case Western Reserve University, two solid oxide fuel cells were installed as part of a test program to explore the technology and the environmental benefits of distributed generation. We are also evaluating the impact of distributed energy storage on the distribution system through analysis and field demonstrations of advanced battery technologies. FirstEnergys EasyGreen load management program utilizes two way communication capability with customers non critical equipment such as air conditioners in New Jersey and Pennsylvania to help manage peak loading on the electric distribution system. FirstEnergy has also made an online interactive energy efficiency tool, Home Energy Analyzer, available for its customers to help achieve electricity use reduction goals. 54 Table of Contents RISKS AND CHALLENGES In executing our strategy, we face a number of industry and enterprise risks and challenges, including: risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment; changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profit margins; we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against; the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results; financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs; our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies; nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning; capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of the decommissioning trust fund, pension fund assets and other trust funds which then could require significant additional funding; we could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by NERC/FERC or changes in the rules of organized markets and the states in which we do business; we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. If transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered; disruptions in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities and impact financial results; temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins; we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel; increases in customer electric rates and economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts; the goodwill of one or more of our operating subsidiaries may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts; we face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements; significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity; our business is subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to our reputation and or results of operations; acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business; capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters; changes in technology may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive; 55 Table of Contents we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions; ability of certain FirstEnergy companies to meet their obligations to other FirstEnergy companies; our pending merger with Allegheny may not achieve its intended results; upon consummation of the pending merger we will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial results; once the pending merger is closed the combined company will have a higher percentage of coal fired generation capacity compared to FirstEnergys previous generation mix. As a result, FirstEnergy may be exposed to greater risk from regulations of coal and coal combustion by products than it faced prior to the merger; complex and changing government regulations could have a negative impact on our results of operations; regulatory changes in the electric industry, including a reversal, discontinuance or delay of the present trend toward competitive markets, could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations; the prospect of rising rates could prompt legislative or regulatory action to restrict or control such rate increases; this in turn could create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect the utilities ability to recover their costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements; our profitability is impacted by our affiliated companies continued authorization to sell power at market based rates; there are uncertainties relating to our participation in RTOs; a significant delay in or challenges to various elements of ATSIs consolidation into PJM, including but not limited to, the intervention of parties to the regulatory proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition; energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results; our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements; the EPA is conducting NSR investigations at a number of our generating plants, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition; costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect cash flow and profitability; the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows; remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities; availability and cost of emission credits could materially impact our costs of operations; mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs; we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities; the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the NRC; future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported financial results; 56 Table of Contents increases in taxes and fees; interest rates and or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, our ability to access capital and our requirement to post collateral; we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition; we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid; disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition; and questions regarding the soundness of financial institutions or counterparties could adversely affect us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The financial results discussed below include revenues and expenses from transactions among FirstEnergys business segments. A reconciliation of segment financial results is provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Earnings available to FirstEnergy by major business segment were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Earnings (Loss) By Business Segment: Energy delivery services $ 607 $ 435 $ 916 $ 172 $ (481 ) Competitive energy services 258 517 472 (259 ) 45 Other and reconciling adjustments* (81 ) 54 (46 ) (135 ) 100 Total $ 784 $ 1,006 $ 1,342 $ (222 ) $ (336 ) Basic Earnings Per Share $ 2.58 $ 3.31 $ 4.41 $ (0.73 ) $ (1.10 ) Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 2.57 $ 3.29 $ 4.38 $ (0.72 ) $ (1.09 ) * Consists primarily of interest expense related to holding company debt, corporate support services revenues and expenses, noncontrolling interests and the elimination of intersegment transactions. 57 Table of Contents Summary of Results of Operations 2010 Compared with 2009 Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2010 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 9,271 $ 3,252 $ $ 12,523 Other 542 292 (92 ) 742 Internal* 139 2,301 (2,366 ) 74 Total Revenues 9,952 5,845 (2,458 ) 13,339 Expenses: Fuel 1,440 (8 ) 1,432 Purchased power 5,266 1,724 (2,366 ) 4,624 Other operating expenses 1,492 1,436 (78 ) 2,850 Provision for depreciation 451 254 41 746 Amortization of regulatory assets 722 722 Deferral of new regulatory assets Impairment of long lived assets 384 384 General taxes 653 113 10 776 Total Expenses 8,584 5,351 (2,401 ) 11,534 Operating Income 1,368 494 (57 ) 1,805 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36 ) 117 Interest expense (496 ) (221 ) (128 ) (845 ) Capitalized interest 5 92 68 165 Total Other Expense (389 ) (78 ) (96 ) (563 ) Income Before Income Taxes 979 416 (153 ) 1,242 Income taxes 372 158 (48 ) 482 Net Income (Loss) 607 258 (105 ) 760 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24 ) (24 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 607 $ 258 $ (81 ) $ 784 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 58 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2009 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 10,585 $ 1,447 $ $ 12,032 Other 559 447 (82 ) 924 Internal* 2,843 (2,826 ) 17 Total Revenues 11,144 4,737 (2,908 ) 12,973 Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153 Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826 ) 4,730 Other operating expenses 1,424 1,357 (84 ) 2,697 Provision for depreciation 445 270 21 736 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,155 1,155 Deferral of new regulatory assets (136 ) (136 ) Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes 641 108 4 753 Total Expenses 10,089 3,890 (2,885 ) 11,094 Operating Income 1,055 847 (23 ) 1,879 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 139 121 (56 ) 204 Interest expense (472 ) (166 ) (340 ) (978 ) Capitalized interest 3 60 67 130 Total Other Income (Expense) (330 ) 15 (329 ) (644 ) Income Before Income Taxes 725 862 (352 ) 1,235 Income taxes 290 345 (390 ) 245 Net Income 435 517 38 990 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16 ) (16 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 435 $ 517 $ 54 $ 1,006 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, Internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 59 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Changes Between 2010 and 2009 Financial Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy Results Increase (Decrease) Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ (1,314 ) $ 1,805 $ $ 491 Other (17 ) (155 ) (10 ) (182 ) Internal* 139 (542 ) 460 57 Total Revenues (1,192 ) 1,108 450 366 Expenses: Fuel 287 (8 ) 279 Purchased power (1,294 ) 728 460 (106 ) Other operating expenses 68 79 6 153 Provision for depreciation 6 (16 ) 20 10 Amortization of regulatory assets (433 ) (433 ) Deferral of new regulatory assets 136 136 Impairment of long lived assets 378 378 General taxes 12 5 6 23 Total Expenses (1,505 ) 1,461 484 440 Operating Income 313 (353 ) (34 ) (74 ) Other Income (Expense): Investment income (37 ) (70 ) 20 (87 ) Interest expense (24 ) (55 ) 212 133 Capitalized interest 2 32 1 35 Total Other Expense (59 ) (93 ) 233 81 Income Before Income Taxes 254 (446 ) 199 7 Income taxes 82 (187 ) 342 237 Net Income 172 (259 ) (143 ) (230 ) Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (8 ) (8 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 172 $ (259 ) $ (135 ) $ (222 ) * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. Energy Delivery Services 2010 Compared to 2009 Net income increased $172 million to $607 million in 2010 compared to $435 million in 2009, primarily due to CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment in 2009, partially offset by increases in other operating expenses. Lower generation revenues were offset by lower purchased power expenses. Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Distribution services $ 3,629 $ 3,419 $ 210 Generation sales: Retail 4,456 5,764 (1,308 ) Wholesale 841 752 89 Total generation sales 5,297 6,516 (1,219 ) Transmission 833 1,028 (195 ) Other 193 181 12 Total Revenues $ 9,952 $ 11,144 $ (1,192 ) 60 Table of Contents The increase in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: Electric Distribution KWH Deliveries Residential 5.9 % Commercial 2.8 % Industrial 8.4 % Total Distribution KWH Deliveries 5.6 % Higher deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflect increased weather related usage due to a 70% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. In the industrial sector, KWH deliveries increased primarily to major automotive customers (16%), refinery customers (7%) and steel customers (38%). The increase in distribution service revenues also reflects the Pennsylvania Companies recovery of the Pennsylvania EEC as approved by the PPUC in March 2010 and the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio, partially offset by a reduction in the transition rate for CEI effective June 1, 2009. The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1.2 billion decrease in generation revenues in 2010 compared to 2009: Increase Source of Change in Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 24.9% decrease in sales volumes $ (1,438 ) Change in prices 130 (1,308 ) Wholesale: Effect of 8.4% decrease in sales volumes (64 ) Change in prices 153 89 Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $ (1,219 ) The decrease in retail generation sales volumes was primarily due to an increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. Total generation KWH provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total KWH deliveries by the Ohio Companies increased to 62% in 2010 from 17% in 2009. The decrease in volumes was partially offset by increases in generation revenues due to higher rates from the May 2009 Ohio CBP that include the recovery of transmission costs. The increase in wholesale generation revenues reflected higher prices and increased capacity sales for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $195 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies transmission tariff effective June 1, 2009; transmission costs are now a component of the cost of generation established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Expenses Total expenses decreased by $1.5 billion due to the following: Purchased power costs were $1.3 billion lower in 2010, largely due to lower volume requirements. The decrease in volumes from non affiliates resulted principally from the termination of a third party supply contract for Met Ed and Penelec in January 2010 and from the increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. The decrease in purchases from FES also resulted from the increase in customer shopping in Ohio. An increase in purchased power unit costs from non affiliates in 2010 resulted from higher capacity prices in the PJM market for Met Ed and Penelec. A decrease in unit costs for purchases from FES was principally due to the lower weighted average unit price per KWH established under the May 2009 CBP auction for the Ohio Companies effective June 1, 2009. 61 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $ 619 Change due to decreased volumes (1,489 ) (870 ) Purchases from FES: Change due to decreased unit costs (257 ) Change due to decreased volumes (250 ) (507 ) Decrease in costs deferred 83 Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $ (1,294 ) Transmission expenses increased $70 million primarily due to higher PJM network transmission expenses and congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by lower MISO network transmission expenses that are reflected in the generation rate established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Met Ed and Penelec defer or amortize the difference between revenues from their transmission rider and transmission costs incurred with no material effect on earnings. Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $34 million due to lower pension and OPEB expenses, lower payroll costs resulting from staffing reductions implemented in 2009, and restructuring expenses recognized in 2009. Expenses for economic development commitments related to the Ohio Companies ESP were lower by $11 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Depreciation expense increased $6 million due to property additions since 2009. Amortization of regulatory assets decreased $433 million due primarily to the absence of the $216 million impairment of CEIs regulatory assets in 2009, reduced net MISO and PJM transmission cost amortization and reduced CTC amortization for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by increased amortization associated with the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio and a $35 million regulatory asset impairment in 2010 associated with the Ohio Companies ESP. The deferral of new regulatory assets decreased $136 million in 2010 due to CEIs purchased power cost deferrals that ended in early 2009. General taxes increased $12 million principally due to a benefit relating to Ohio KWH excise taxes that was recognized in 2009 and applicable to prior years. Other Expense Other expense increased $59 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income ($37 million) and higher net interest expense associated with debt issuances by the Utilities during 2009 ($22 million). Competitive Energy Services 2010 Compared to 2009 Net income decreased to $258 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $384 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins. 62 Table of Contents Revenues Total revenues increased $1,108 million in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to an increase in direct and government aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies, other wholesale sales and the reduced OVEC participation interest sale in 2010. The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Direct and Government Aggregation $ 2,494 $ 779 $ 1,715 POLR 2,436 2,863 (427 ) Wholesale 550 632 (82 ) Transmission 77 73 4 RECs 74 17 57 Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167 ) Other 129 121 8 Total Revenues $ 5,845 $ 4,737 $ 1,108 The increase in direct and government aggregation revenues of $1.7 billion resulted from increased revenue from the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new government aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to approximately 600,000 customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009. The decrease in POLR revenues of $427 million was due to lower sales volumes and lower unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to the Pennsylvania Companies resulted from FES supplying Met Ed and Penelec with volumes previously supplied through a third party contract and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009. Other wholesale revenues decreased $82 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Direct and Government Aggregation (Decrease) (In millions) Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $ 1,083 Change in prices (82 ) 1,001 Government Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 704 Change in prices 10 714 Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $ 1,715 63 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Decrease (In millions) POLR: Effect of 5.3% decrease in sales volumes $ (153 ) Change in prices (274 ) (427 ) Other Wholesale: Effect of 26.5% decrease in sales volumes (105 ) Change in prices 23 (82 ) Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $ (509 ) Expenses Total expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2010 due to the following factors: Fuel costs increased $287 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased volumes consumed ($217 million) and higher unit prices ($70 million). The higher volumes consumed in 2010 were due to increased sales to direct and government aggregation customers, improved economic conditions and improved generating unit availability. The increase in unit prices was due primarily to increased coal transportation costs and to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010. Purchased power costs increased $728 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec. Fossil operating costs decreased $12 million due primarily to lower labor and professional and contractor costs, which were partially offset by reduced gains from the sale of emission allowances and excess coal. Nuclear operating costs decreased $21 million due primarily to lower labor, consulting and contractor costs partially offset by increased nuclear property insurance and employee benefit costs. The year 2010 had one less refueling outage and fewer extended outages than the same period of 2009. Transmission expenses increased $25 million due primarily to increased costs in MISO of $170 million from higher network, ancillary and congestion costs, partially offset by lower PJM transmission expenses of $145 million due to lower congestion costs. Depreciation expense decreased $16 million principally due to reduced depreciable property associated with the impairments described below and the sale of the Sumpter plant in early 2010. General taxes increased $5 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes. Other expenses increased $465 million primarily due to a $384 million impairment charge ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units in response to the continued slow economy, lower demand for electricity and uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Expenses were also increased due to the significant growth in FES retail business professional and contractor expenses, billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees. Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $93 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income ($66) million and a $23 million increase in net interest expense from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010. 64 Table of Contents Other 2010 Compared to 2009 Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in a $135 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease resulted primarily from increased income tax expense ($342 million) due in part to the absence of favorable tax settlements that occurred in 2009 ($200 million), partially offset by the absence of 2009 debt retirement costs in connection with the tender offer for holding company debt ($90 million), decreased interest expense associated with the debt retirement ($53 million), increased investment income ($20 million) and decreased depreciation ($20 million). Summary of Results of Operations 2009 Compared with 2008 Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2009 were as follows: Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2009 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 10,585 $ 1,447 $ $ 12,032 Other 559 447 (82 ) 924 Internal* 2,843 (2,826 ) 17 Total Revenues 11,144 4,737 (2,908 ) 12,973 Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153 Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826 ) 4,730 Other operating expenses 1,424 1,357 (84 ) 2,697 Provision for depreciation 445 270 21 736 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,155 1,155 Deferral of new regulatory assets (136 ) (136 ) Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes 641 108 4 753 Total Expenses 10,089 3,890 (2,885 ) 11,094 Operating Income 1,055 847 (23 ) 1,879 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 139 121 (56 ) 204 Interest expense (472 ) (166 ) (340 ) (978 ) Capitalized interest 3 60 67 130 Total Other Expense (330 ) 15 (329 ) (644 ) Income Before Income Taxes 725 862 (352 ) 1,235 Income taxes 290 345 (390 ) 245 Net Income 435 517 38 990 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16 ) (16 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 435 $ 517 $ 54 $ 1,006 * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. 65 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy 2008 Financial Results Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ 11,360 $ 1,333 $ $ 12,693 Other 708 238 (12 ) 934 Internal 2,968 (2,968 ) Total Revenues 12,068 4,539 (2,980 ) 13,627 Expenses: Fuel 2 1,338 1,340 Purchased power 6,480 779 (2,968 ) 4,291 Other operating expenses 2,022 1,142 (119 ) 3,045 Provision for depreciation 417 243 17 677 Amortization of regulatory assets 1,053 1,053 Deferral of new regulatory assets (316 ) (316 ) Impairment of long lived assets General taxes 646 109 23 778 Total Expenses 10,304 3,611 (3,047 ) 10,868 Operating Income 1,764 928 67 2,759 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 171 (34 ) (78 ) 59 Interest expense (411 ) (152 ) (191 ) (754 ) Capitalized interest 3 44 5 52 Total Other Expense (237 ) (142 ) (264 ) (643 ) Income Before Income Taxes 1,527 786 (197 ) 2,116 Income taxes 611 314 (148 ) 777 Net Income 916 472 (49 ) 1,339 Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3 ) (3 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ 916 $ 472 $ (46 ) $ 1,342 66 Table of Contents Energy Competitive Other and Changes Between 2009 and 2008 Financial Delivery Energy Reconciling FirstEnergy Results Increase (Decrease) Services Services Adjustments Consolidated (In millions) Revenues: External Electric $ (775 ) $ 114 $ $ (661 ) Other (149 ) 209 (70 ) (10 ) Internal* (125 ) 142 17 Total Revenues (924 ) 198 72 (654 ) Expenses: Fuel (2 ) (185 ) (187 ) Purchased power 80 217 142 439 Other operating expenses (598 ) 215 35 (348 ) Provision for depreciation 28 27 4 59 Amortization of regulatory assets 102 102 Deferral of new regulatory assets 180 180 Impairment of long lived assets 6 6 General taxes (5 ) (1 ) (19 ) (25 ) Total Expenses (215 ) 279 162 226 Operating Income (709 ) (81 ) (90 ) (880 ) Other Income (Expense): Investment income (32 ) 155 22 145 Interest expense (61 ) (14 ) (149 ) (224 ) Capitalized interest 16 62 78 Total Other Expense (93 ) 157 (65 ) (1 ) Income Before Income Taxes (802 ) 76 (155 ) (881 ) Income taxes (321 ) 31 (242 ) (532 ) Net Income (481 ) 45 87 (349 ) Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (13 ) (13 ) Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $ (481 ) $ 45 $ 100 $ (336 ) * Under the accounting standard for the effects of certain types of regulation, internal revenues are not fully offset for sale of RECs by FES to the Ohio Companies that are retained in inventory. Energy Delivery Services 2009 Compared to 2008 Net income decreased $481 million to $435 million in 2009 compared to $916 million in 2008, primarily due to lower revenues, increased purchased power costs and decreased deferrals of new regulatory assets, partially offset by lower other operating expenses. Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Distribution services $ 3,420 $ 3,882 $ (462 ) Generation sales: Retail 5,760 5,768 (8 ) Wholesale 752 962 (210 ) Total generation sales 6,512 6,730 (218 ) Transmission 1,023 1,268 (245 ) Other 189 188 1 Total Revenues $ 11,144 $ 12,068 $ (924 ) 67 Table of Contents The decrease in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: Electric Distribution KWH Deliveries Residential (3.3 )% Commercial (4.4 )% Industrial (14.7 )% Total Distribution KWH Deliveries (7.3 )% The lower revenues from distribution services were driven primarily by the reductions in sales volume associated with milder weather and economic conditions. The decrease in residential deliveries reflected reduced weather related usage compared to 2008, as cooling degree days and heating degree days decreased by 17% and 1%, respectively. The decreases in distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers were primarily due to economic conditions in FirstEnergys service territory. In the industrial sector, KWH deliveries declined to major automotive customers by 20.2% and to steel customers by 36.2%. Reduced revenues from transition charges for OE and TE that ceased with the full recovery of related costs effective January 1, 2009 and the transition rate reduction for CEI effective June 1, 2009, were offset by PUCO approved distribution rate increases (see Regulatory Matters Ohio). The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $218 million decrease in generation revenues in 2009 compared to 2008: Increase Source of Change in Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 10.5% decrease in sales volumes $ (603 ) Change in prices 595 (8 ) Wholesale: Effect of 14.9% decrease in sales volumes (143 ) Change in prices (67 ) (210 ) Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $ (218 ) The decrease in retail generation sales volumes from 2008 was primarily due to the weakened economic conditions and milder weather described above. Retail generation prices increased for JCPL and Penn during 2009 as a result of their power procurement processes. For the Ohio Companies, average prices increased primarily due to the higher fuel cost recovery riders that were effective from January through May 2009. In addition, effective June 1, 2009, the Ohio Companies transmission tariff ended and transmission costs became a component of the generation rate established under the CBP. Wholesale generation sales decreased principally as a result of JCPL selling less available power from NUGs due to the termination of a NUG purchase contract in October 2008. The decrease in wholesale prices reflected lower spot market prices in PJM. Transmission revenues decreased $245 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies current transmission tariff and lower MISO and PJM transmission revenues, partially offset by higher transmission rates for Met Ed and Penelec resulting from the annual updates to their TSC riders (see Regulatory Matters). The difference between transmission revenues accrued and transmission costs incurred are deferred, resulting in no material effect on current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased by $215 million due to the following: Purchased power costs were $80 million higher in 2009 due to higher unit costs, partially offset by an increase in volumes combined with higher NUG cost deferrals. The increased purchased power costs from non affiliates was due primarily to increased volumes for the Ohio Companies as a result of their CBP, partially offset by lower volumes for Met Ed and Penelec due to the termination of a third party supply contract in December 2008 and for JCPL due to the termination of a NUG purchase contract in October 2008. Decreased purchased power costs from FES were principally due to lower volumes for the Ohio Companies following their CBP, partially offset by increased volumes for Met Ed and Penelec under their fixed price partial requirements PSA with FES. Higher unit costs from FES, which included a component for transmission under the Ohio Companies CBP, partially offset the decreased volumes. 68 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the sources of changes in purchased power costs: Increase Source of Change in Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $ 58 Change due to increased volumes 312 370 Purchases from FES: Change due to increased unit costs 583 Change due to decreased volumes (725 ) (142 ) Increase in NUG costs deferred (148 ) Net Increase in Purchased Power Costs $ 80 Transmission expenses were lower by $481 million in 2009, reflecting the change in the transmission tariff under the Ohio Companies CBP, reduced transmission volumes and lower congestion costs. Intersegment cost reimbursements related to the Ohio Companies nuclear generation leasehold interests increased by $114 million in 2009. Prior to 2009, a portion of OEs and TEs leasehold costs were recovered through customer transition charges. Effective January 1, 2009, these leasehold costs are reimbursed from the competitive energy services segment. Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $39 million reflecting changes to Energy Deliverys organizational and compensation structure and increased resources dedicated to capital projects, partially offset by higher pension expenses resulting from reduced pension plan asset values at the end of 2008. Storm related costs were $16 million lower in 2009 compared to the prior year. An increase in other operating expenses of $40 million resulted from the recognition of economic development and energy efficiency obligations in accordance with the PUCO approved ESP. Uncollectible expenses were higher by $12 million in 2009 principally due to increased bankruptcies. A $102 million increase in the amortization of regulatory assets was due primarily to the ESP related impairment of CEIs regulatory assets ($216 million) and MISO/PJM transmission cost amortization in 2009, partially offset by the cessation of transition cost amortization for OE and TE. A $180 million decrease in the deferral of new regulatory assets was principally due to the absence in 2009 of PJM transmission cost deferrals and RCP distribution cost deferrals, partially offset by the PUCO approved deferral of purchased power costs for CEI. Depreciation expense increased $28 million due to property additions since 2008. General taxes decreased $5 million due primarily to lower revenue related taxes in 2009. Other Expense Other expense increased $93 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Lower investment income of $32 million resulted primarily from repaid notes receivable from affiliates. Higher interest expense (net of capitalized interest) of $61 million resulted from a net increase in debt of $1.8 billion by the Utilities and ATSI during 2009. Competitive Energy Services 2009 Compared to 2008 Net income increased to $517 million in 2009 compared to $472 million in the same period of 2008. The increase in net income includes FGCOs gain from the sale of a 9% participation interest in OVEC, increased sales margins, and an increase in investment income, offset by a mark to market adjustment relating to purchased power contracts for delivery in 2010 and 2011. 69 Table of Contents Revenues Total revenues increased $198 million in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This increase primarily resulted from the OVEC sale and higher unit prices on affiliated generation sales to the Ohio Companies and non affiliated customers, partially offset by lower sales volumes. The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2009 2008 (Decrease) (In millions) Non Affiliated Generation Sales: Retail $ 778 $ 615 $ 163 Wholesale 669 718 (49 ) Total Non Affiliated Generation Sales 1,447 1,333 114 Affiliated Generation Sales 2,843 2,968 (125 ) Transmission 73 150 (77 ) Sale of OVEC participation interest 252 252 Other 122 88 34 Total Revenues $ 4,737 $ 4,539 $ 198 The increase in non affiliated retail revenues of $163 million resulted from increased revenue in both the PJM and MISO markets. The increase in MISO retail revenue is primarily the result of the acquisition of new customers, higher unit prices and the inclusion of the transmission related component in retail rates previously reported as transmission revenues. The increase in PJM retail revenue resulted from the acquisition of new customers, higher sales volumes and unit prices. The acquisition of new customers in MISO is primarily due to new government aggregation contracts with 60 area communities in Ohio that will provide discounted generation prices to approximately 580,000 residential and small commercial customers. Lower non affiliated wholesale revenues of $49 million resulted from decreased sales volumes in PJM partially offset by increased capacity prices, increased sales volumes in MISO, and favorable settlements on hedged transactions. The lower affiliated company wholesale generation revenues of $125 million were due to lower sales volumes to the Ohio Companies combined with lower unit prices to the Pennsylvania companies, partially offset by higher unit prices to the Ohio Companies and increased sales volumes to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Ohio Companies reflected the results of the power procurement processes in the first half of 2009 (see Regulatory Matters Ohio). The higher sales to the Pennsylvania Companies were due to increased Met Ed and Penelec generation sales requirements supplied by FES partially offset by lower sales to Penn due to decreased default service requirements in 2009 compared to 2008. Additionally, while unit prices for each of the Pennsylvania Companies did not change, the mix of sales among the companies caused the overall price to decline. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Non Affiliated Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 8.6% increase in sales volumes $ 53 Change in prices 110 163 Wholesale: Effect of 13.9% decrease in sales volumes (100 ) Change in prices 51 (49 ) Net Increase in Non Affiliated Generation Revenues $ 114 70 Table of Contents Increase Source of Change in Affiliated Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Retail: Effect of 36.3% decrease in sales volumes $ (837 ) Change in prices 645 (192 ) Wholesale: Effect of 14.7% increase in sales volumes 97 Change in prices (30 ) 67 Net Decrease in Affiliated Generation Revenues $ (125 ) Transmission revenues decreased $77 million due primarily to reduced loads following the expiration of the government aggregation programs in Ohio at the end of 2008 and to the inclusion of the transmission related component in the retail rates in mid 2009. In 2009 FGCO sold 9% of its participation interest in OVEC resulting in a $252 million ($158 million, after tax) gain. Other revenue increased $28 million primarily due to income associated with NGCs acquisition of equity interests in the Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 leases. Expenses Total expenses increased $279 million in 2009 due to the following factors: Fossil Fuel costs decreased $198 million due primarily to lower generation volumes ($307 million) partially offset by higher unit prices ($109 million). Nuclear Fuel costs increased $13 million as higher unit prices ($26 million) were partially offset by lower generation ($13 million). Purchased power costs increased $217 million due to a mark to market adjustment ($205 million) relating to purchased power contracts for delivery in 2010 and 2011 and higher unit prices ($33 million) that resulted primarily from higher capacity costs, partially offset by lower volumes purchased ($21 million) due to FGCOs reduced participation interest in OVEC. Fossil operating costs decreased $24 million due primarily to a reduction in contractor, material and labor costs and increased resources dedicated to capital projects, partially offset by higher employee benefits. Nuclear operating costs increased $45 million due to an additional refueling outage during the 2009 period and higher employee benefits, partially offset by lower labor costs. Transmission expense increased $121 million due to transmission services charges related to the load serving entity obligations in MISO, increased net congestion and higher loss expenses in MISO and PJM. Other expense increased $78 million due primarily to increased intersegment billings for leasehold costs from the Ohio Companies and higher pension costs. Depreciation expense increased $27 million due to NGCs increased ownership interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2 and Perry. Other Income (Expense) Total other income in 2009 was $15 million compared to total other expense in 2008 of $142 million, resulting primarily from a $155 million increase from gains on the sale of nuclear decommissioning trust investments. During 2009, the majority of the nuclear decommissioning trust holdings were converted to more closely align with the liability being funded. Other 2009 Compared to 2008 Our financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items resulted in a $100 million increase in net income in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase resulted primarily from $200 million of favorable tax settlements, offset by debt redemption costs of $90 million and by the absence of the gain from the sale of telecommunication assets ($19 million, net of taxes) in 2008. 71 Table of Contents POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS FirstEnergy provides a noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of our employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. We also provide health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles, and co payments, upon retirement to employees hired prior to January 1, 2005, their dependents, and under certain circumstances, their survivors. Benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date. Adverse market conditions during 2008 increased 2009 costs, which were partially offset by the effects of a $500 million voluntary cash pension contribution and an OPEB plan amendment in 2009. Recovering market conditions and greater returns on higher asset levels decreased postretirement benefit expense in 2010, partially offset by a full year of realization on the reduction in benefit liability resulting from the OPEB plan amendment in 2009. Pension and OPEB expenses are included in various cost categories and have contributed to cost increases discussed above for 2010. The following table reflects the portion of qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB costs that were charged to expense in the three years ended December 31, 2010: Postretirement Benefits Expense (Credits) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Pension $ 174 $ 185 $ (23 ) OPEB (90 ) (40 ) (37 ) Total $ 84 $ 145 $ (60 ) As of December 31, 2010, our pension plan was underfunded and we currently anticipate that an additional voluntary cash contribution of $250 million will be made in 2011. The overall actual investment result during 2010 was a gain of 10% compared to an assumed 8.5% return. Based on discount rates of 5.50% for pension, 5.00% for OPEB and an estimated return on assets of 8.25%, our 2011 pre tax net periodic postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $92 million. SUPPLY PLAN Regulated Commodity Sourcing The Utilities have a default service obligation to provide power to non shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service territory. JCPLs default service supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. The Ohio Companies and Penns default service supplies are provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO and PPUC, respectively. The default service supply for Met Ed and Penelec was secured through a FERC approved agreement with FES through 2010, transitioning to a PPUC approved competitive procurement process in 2011. If any supplier fails to deliver power to any one of the Utilities service areas, the Utility serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as a POLR. Unregulated Commodity Sourcing FES provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale of electricity and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale competitive supply arrangements. FES controls 13,236 MW of installed generating capacity. FES supplies the power requirements of its competitive load serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary owned generation, non affiliated contracts and spot market transactions. FES has retail and wholesale competitive load serving obligations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey serving both affiliated and non affiliated companies. FES provides energy products and services to customers under various POLR, shopping, competitive bid and non affiliated contractual obligations. In 2010, FES generation was used to serve two primary obligations affiliated companies utilized approximately 43% of FES total generation and retail customers utilized approximately 43% of FES total generation. Geographically, approximately 60% of FES obligation is located in the MISO market area and 40% is located in the PJM market area. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1 billion available to fund investments, operations and capital expenditures. To fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2011 and beyond, FirstEnergy may rely on internal and external sources of funds. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short term borrowings. Long term cash needs may be met through issuances of debt and or equity securities. 72 Table of Contents FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergys business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. During 2011, FirstEnergy expects to satisfy these requirements with a combination of internal cash from operations and external funds from the capital markets as market conditions warrant. FirstEnergy also expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long term capital markets. A material adverse change in operations, or in the availability of external financing sources, could impact FirstEnergys ability to fund current liquidity and capital resource requirements. To mitigate risk, FirstEnergys business model stresses financial discipline and a strong focus on execution. Major elements of this business model include the expectation of: projected cash from operations, opportunities for favorable long term earnings growth as the transition to competitive generation markets is completed, operational excellence, business plan execution, well positioned generation fleet, no speculative trading operations, appropriate long term commodity hedging positions, manageable capital expenditure program, adequately funded pension plan, minimal near term maturities of existing long term debt, commitment to a secure dividend (dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations) and a successful merger integration. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys net deficit in working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was principally due to short term borrowings and the classification of certain variable interest rate PCRBs as currently payable long term debt. Currently payable long term debt as of December 31, 2010, included the following (in millions): Currently Payable Long term Debt PCRBs supported by bank LOCs (1) $ 827 FGCO and NGC PCRBs (1) 191 Penelec unsecured PCRBs 25 FirstEnergy Corp. unsecured note 250 NGC collateralized lease obligation bonds 50 Sinking fund requirements 33 FES term loan 100 Other obligations 10 $ 1,486 (1) Interest rate mode permits individual debt holders to put the respective debt back to the issuer prior to maturity. Short Term Borrowings FirstEnergy had approximately $700 million of short term borrowings as of December 31, 2010 and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. FirstEnergys available liquidity as of January 31, 2011, is summarized in the following table: Available Company Type Maturity Commitment Liquidity (In millions) FirstEnergy(1) Revolving Aug. 2012 $ 2,750 $ 2,245 FES Term loan Mar. 2011 100 Ohio and Pennsylvania Companies Receivables financing Various (2) 395 237 Subtotal $ 3,245 $ 2,482 Cash 668 Total $ 3,245 $ 3,150 (1) FirstEnergy Corp. and subsidiary borrowers. (2) Ohio $250 million matures March 30, 2011; Pennsylvania $145 million matures June 17, 2011 with optional extension terms. On October 22, 2010, Signal Peak and Global Rail, as borrowers, entered into a $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility. The loan proceeds were used to repay $258 million of notes payable to FirstEnergy, including $9 million of interest and $63 million of bank loans that were scheduled to mature on November 16, 2010. Additional proceeds were used for general company purposes, including an $11 million repayment of a third party sellers note. As discussed below under Guarantees and Other Assurances, FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II LLC, the entities that share ownership with FEV in the borrowers, have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the facility. 73 Table of Contents Revolving Credit Facility FirstEnergy has the capability to request an increase in the total commitments available under the $2.75 billion revolving credit facility (included in the borrowing capability table above) up to a maximum of $3.25 billion, subject to the discretion of each lender to provide additional commitments. A total of 25 banks participate in the facility, with no one bank having more than 7.3% of the total commitment. Commitments under the facility are available until August 24, 2012, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the borrowers, to an unlimited number of additional one year extensions. Generally, borrowings under the facility must be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each borrower are subject to a specified sub limit, as well as applicable regulatory and other limitations. The following table summarizes the borrowing sub limits for each borrower under the facility, as well as the limitations on short term indebtedness applicable to each borrower under current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations as of December 31, 2010: Revolving Regulatory and Credit Facility Other Short Term Borrower Sub Limit Debt Limitations (In millions) FirstEnergy $ 2,750 $ (1) FES 1,000 (1) OE 500 500 Penn 50 34 (2) CEI 250 (3) 500 TE 250 (3) 500 JCPL 425 411 (2) Met Ed 250 300 (2) Penelec 250 300 (2) ATSI 50 (4) 100 (1) No regulatory approvals, statutory or charter limitations applicable. (2) Excluding amounts that may be borrowed under the regulated companies money pool. (3) Borrowing sub limits for CEI and TE may be increased to up to $500 million by delivering notice to the administrative agent that such borrower has senior unsecured debt ratings of at least BBB by SP and Baa2 by Moodys. (4) The borrowing sub limit for ATSI may be increased up to $100 million by delivering notice to the administrative agent that ATSI has received regulatory approval to have short term borrowings up to the same amount. Under the revolving credit facility, borrowers may request the issuance of LOCs expiring up to one year from the date of issuance. The stated amount of outstanding LOCs will count against total commitments available under the facility and against the applicable borrowers borrowing sub limit. The revolving credit facility contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65%, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt to total capitalization ratios (as defined under the revolving credit facility) were as follows: Borrower FirstEnergy 60.6 % FES 52.6 % OE 54.1 % Penn 37.7 % CEI 57.1 % TE 57.6 % JCPL 34.6 % Met Ed 41.5 % Penelec 54.7 % ATSI 48.3 % 74 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy could issue additional debt of approximately $3.2 billion, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $1.7 billion, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by its revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility does not contain provisions that either restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate repayment of outstanding advances as a result of any change in credit ratings. Pricing is defined in pricing grids, whereby the cost of funds borrowed under the facility is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds. FirstEnergy Money Pools FirstEnergys regulated companies also have the ability to borrow from each other and the holding company to meet their short term working capital requirements. A similar but separate arrangement exists among FirstEnergys unregulated companies. FESC administers these two money pools and tracks surplus funds of FirstEnergy and the respective regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from their respective pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings in 2010 was 0.51% per annum for the regulated companies money pool and 0.60% per annum for the unregulated companies money pool. Pollution Control Revenue Bonds As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys currently payable long term debt included approximately $827 million (FES $778 million, Met Ed $29 million and Penelec $20 million) of variable interest rate PCRBs, the bondholders of which are entitled to the benefit of irrevocable direct pay bank LOCs. The interest rates on the PCRBs are reset daily or weekly. Bondholders can tender their PCRBs for mandatory purchase prior to maturity with the purchase price payable from remarketing proceeds or, if the PCRBs are not successfully remarketed, by drawings on the irrevocable direct pay LOCs. The subsidiary obligor is required to reimburse the applicable LOC bank for any such drawings or, if the LOC bank fails to honor its LOC for any reason, must itself pay the purchase price. The LOCs for FirstEnergy variable interest rate PCRBs were issued by the following banks as of December 31, 2010: Aggregate LOC Reimbursements of LOC Bank Amount(2) LOC Termination Date LOC Draws Due (In millions) CitiBank N.A. $ 166 June 2014 June 2014 The Bank of Nova Scotia 178 Beginning April 2011 Multiple dates(3) The Royal Bank of Scotland 131 June 2012 6 months Wachovia Bank 152 March 2014 March 2014 Barclays Bank(1) 208 April 2011 30 days Total $ 835 (1) Supported by 13 participating banks, with no one bank having more than 22% of the total commitment. (2) Includes approximately $8 million of applicable interest coverage. (3) Shorter of 6 months or LOC termination date ($49 million) and shorter of one year or LOC termination date ($129 million). On August 20, 2010, FES completed the remarketing of $250 million of PCRBs. Of the $250 million, $235 million of PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed interest rate. The remaining $15 million of PCRBs continue to bear a fixed interest rate. The interest rate conversion minimizes financial risk by converting the long term debt into a fixed rate and, as a result, reducing exposure to variable interest rates over the short term. These remarketings included two series: $235 million of PCRBs that now bears a per annum rate of 2.25% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 3, 2013; and $15 million of PCRBs that now bears a per annum rate of 1.5% and is subject to mandatory purchase on June 1, 2011. On October 1, 2010, FES completed the refinancing and remarketing of six series of PCRBs totaling $313 million. These PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to a fixed long term interest rate of 3.375% per annum and are subject to mandatory purchase on July 1, 2015. On December 3, 2010, FES completed the remarketing of four series of PCRBs totaling $153 million and Penelec completed the remarketing of $25 million PCRBs. These PCRBs were converted from a variable interest rate to fixed interest rates ranging from 2.25% to 3.75% per annum. 75 Table of Contents Long Term Debt Capacity As of December 31, 2010, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue approximately $2.4 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to $124 million and $26 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. As a result of the indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of approximately $394 million and $343 million, respectively, under provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31, 2010. Based upon FGCOs FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of December 31, 2010, FGCO had the capability to issue $1.7 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. Based upon NGCs FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property additions, NGC had the capability to issue $695 million of additional FMBs as of December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the ratings of its securities. On February 11, 2010, SP issued a report lowering FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. Moodys and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries on February 11, 2010. On September 28, 2010, SP issued a report reaffirming the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. Fitch revised its outlook on FirstEnergy and FES from stable to negative on December 15, 2010. The following table displays FirstEnergys, FES and the Utilities securities ratings as of December 31, 2010: Senior Secured Senior Unsecured Issuer SP Moodys Fitch SP Moodys Fitch FirstEnergy Corp. BB Baa3 BBB FES BBB Baa2 BBB OE BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB Penn BBB A3 BBB CEI BBB Baa1 BBB BBB Baa3 BBB TE BBB Baa1 BBB JCPL BBB Baa2 BBB Met Ed BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB Penelec BBB A3 BBB BBB Baa2 BBB ATSI BBB Baa1 Changes in Cash Position As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had $1 billion of cash and cash equivalents compared to $874 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, FirstEnergy had approximately $13 million and $12 million, respectively, of restricted cash included in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, FirstEnergy received $850 million of cash dividends from its subsidiaries and paid $670 million in cash dividends to common shareholders. Cash Flows From Operating Activities FirstEnergys consolidated net cash from operating activities is provided primarily by its competitive energy services and energy delivery services businesses (see Results of Operations above). Net cash provided from operating activities was $3.1 billion in 2010, $2.5 billion in 2009 and $2.2 billion in 2008, as summarized in the following table: 76 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flows 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Net income $ 760 $ 990 $ 1,339 Non cash charges and other adjustments 2,309 2,281 1,405 Pension trust contribution (500 ) Working capital and other 7 (306 ) (520 ) $ 3,076 $ 2,465 $ 2,224 The increase in non cash charges and other adjustments is primarily due to increased impairment charges on long lived assets ($378 million) combined with higher deferred income taxes and investment tax credits ($86 million), partially offset by lower net amortization of regulatory assets of ($297 million), including the impact of CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment recorded during the first quarter of 2009, and reduced charges relating to debt redemptions, primarily caused by a $142 million charge relating to debt redemptions during the third quarter of 2009. The change in working capital and other is primarily due to cash proceeds of $129 million received on the termination of fixed for floating interest rate swaps during the second and third quarters of 2010, changes in investment securities of $121 million, increased accrued taxes and decreased prepayments primarily related to prepaid taxes ($279 million) and changes in uncertain tax positions ($176 million), partially offset by increased accounts receivable ($252 million), decreased accrued interest ($60 million) and increased cash collateral paid to third parties ($56 million). Cash Flows From Financing Activities In 2010, cash used for financing activities was $983 million compared to cash provided from financing activities of $49 million in 2009. The change was primarily due to reduced long term debt issued in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by reduced long term debt redemptions and reduced payments on short term borrowings in 2010 as compared to 2009. The following table summarizes security issuances (net of any discounts) and redemptions: Securities Issued or Redeemed 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) New Issues First mortgage bonds $ $ 398 $ 592 Pollution control notes 740 940 692 Senior secured notes 350 297 Unsecured Notes 9 2,997 83 $ 1,099 $ 4,632 $ 1,367 Redemptions First mortgage bonds $ 32 $ 1 $ 126 Pollution control notes 741 884 698 Senior secured notes 141 217 35 Unsecured notes 101 1,508 175 $ 1,015 $ 2,610 $ 1,034 Short term borrowings, net $ (378 ) $ (1,246 ) $ 1,494 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities resulted primarily from property additions. Additions for the energy delivery services segment primarily represent expenditures related to transmission and distribution facilities. Capital spending by the competitive energy services segment is principally generation related. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by business segment: 77 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows Property Provided from (Used for) Investing Activities Additions Investments Other Total (In millions) Sources (Uses) 2010 Energy delivery services $ (745 ) $ 96 $ 13 $ (636 ) Competitive energy services (1,129 ) (43 ) (51 ) (1,223 ) Other (24 ) (7 ) 30 (1 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (65 ) (23 ) (88 ) Total $ (1,963 ) $ 23 $ (8 ) $ (1,948 ) 2009 Energy delivery services $ (750 ) $ 39 $ (46 ) $ (757 ) Competitive energy services (1,262 ) (8 ) (19 ) (1,289 ) Other (149 ) (3 ) 72 (80 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (42 ) (24 ) 7 (59 ) Total $ (2,203 ) $ 4 $ 14 $ (2,185 ) 2008 Energy delivery services $ (839 ) $ (41 ) $ (17 ) $ (897 ) Competitive energy services (1,835 ) (14 ) (56 ) (1,905 ) Other (176 ) 106 (61 ) (131 ) Inter Segment reconciling items (38 ) (12 ) (50 ) Total $ (2,888 ) $ 39 $ (134 ) $ (2,983 ) Net cash used for investing activities in 2010 decreased by $237 million compared to 2009. The decrease was principally due to a $240 million decrease in property additions (principally lower AQC system expenditures) and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of assets of $96 million, partially offset by $113 million spent by FES in the customer acquisition process. During 2011 through 2013 we anticipate average annual baseline capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion, exclusive of any additional opportunities or future mandated spending. This includes approximately $133 million, $300 million and $183 million in nuclear fuel expenditures for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of December 31, 2010, our estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations that we consider firm obligations are as follows: 2012 2014 Contractual Obligations Total 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter (In millions) Long term debt $ 13,928 $ 437 $ 995 $ 1,165 $ 11,331 Short term borrowings 700 700 Interest on long term debt(1) 10,978 793 1,518 1,379 7,288 Operating leases(2) 3,314 213 477 506 2,118 Fuel and purchased power(3) 16,851 2,660 4,015 3,923 6,253 Capital expenditures 1,109 340 463 306 Pension funding 1,076 250 74 543 209 Other(4) 112 31 14 14 53 Total $ 48,068 $ 5,424 $ 7,556 $ 7,836 $ 27,252 (1) Interest on variable rate debt based on rates as of December 31, 2010. (2) See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements. (4) Includes amounts for capital leases (see Note 7) and contingent tax liabilities (see Note 9). Excluded from the data shown above are estimates for the cash outlays stemming from the power purchase contracts entered into by the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. The exact amount of outlay will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, but based on numerous planning assumptions management estimates an amount of $3.0 billion during 2011. 78 Table of Contents GUARANTEES AND OTHER ASSURANCES As part of normal business activities, FirstEnergy enters into various agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries to provide financial or performance assurances to third parties. These agreements include contract guarantees, surety bonds and LOCs. Some of the guaranteed contracts contain collateral provisions that are contingent upon either FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries credit ratings. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys maximum exposure to potential future payments under outstanding guarantees and other assurances approximated $3.7 billion, as summarized below: Maximum Guarantees and Other Assurances Exposure (In millions) FirstEnergy Guarantees on Behalf of its Subsidiaries Energy and Energy Related Contracts(1) $ 300 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 2 FirstEnergy guarantee of OVEC obligations 300 Other(3) 227 829 Subsidiaries Guarantees Energy and Energy Related Contracts 54 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 3 FES guarantee of NGCs nuclear property insurance 70 FES guarantee of FGCOs sale and leaseback obligations 2,375 Other 2 2,504 Surety Bonds 82 LOC (long term debt) Interest coverage(2) 3 LOC (non debt)(4)(5) 339 424 Total Guarantees and Other Assurances $ 3,757 (1) Issued for open ended terms, with a 10 day termination right by FirstEnergy. (2) Reflects the interest coverage portion of LOCs issued in support of floating rate PCRBs with various maturities. The principal amount of floating rate PCRBs of $827 million is reflected in currently payable long term debt on FirstEnergys consolidated balance sheets. (3) Includes guarantees of $15 million for nuclear decommissioning funding assurances, $161 million supporting OEs sale and leaseback arrangement, and $39 million for railcar leases. (4) Includes $167 million issued for various terms pursuant to LOC capacity available under FirstEnergys revolving credit facility. (5) Includes approximately $130 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Beaver Valley Unit 2 by OE and $42 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Perry by OE. FirstEnergy guarantees energy and energy related payments of its subsidiaries involved in energy commodity activities principally to facilitate or hedge normal physical transactions involving electricity, gas, emission allowances and coal. FirstEnergy also provides guarantees to various providers of credit support for the financing or refinancing by its subsidiaries of costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. These agreements legally obligate FirstEnergy to fulfill the obligations of those subsidiaries directly involved in energy and energy related transactions or financings where the law might otherwise limit the counterparties claims. If demands of a counterparty were to exceed the ability of a subsidiary to satisfy existing obligations, FirstEnergys guarantee enables the counterpartys legal claim to be satisfied by FirstEnergys assets. FirstEnergy believes the likelihood is remote that such parental guarantees will increase amounts otherwise paid by FirstEnergy to meet its obligations incurred in connection with ongoing energy and energy related activities. 79 Table of Contents While these types of guarantees are normally parental commitments for the future payment of subsidiary obligations, subsequent to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade, an acceleration or funding obligation or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of cash collateral, provision of an LOC or accelerated payments may be required of the subsidiary. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergys maximum exposure under these collateral provisions was $468 million, as shown below: Collateral Provisions FES Utilities Total (In millions) Credit rating downgrade to below investment grade (1) $ 364 $ 65 $ 429 Material adverse event (2) 39 39 Total $ 403 $ 65 $ 468 (1) Includes $137 million and $54 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES and the Utilities, respectively. (2) Includes $33 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES. Stress case conditions of a credit rating downgrade or material adverse event and hypothetical adverse price movements in the underlying commodity markets would increase the total potential amount to $532 million consisting of $486 million due to a below investment grade credit rating (of which $224 million is related to an acceleration of payment or funding obligation) and $46 million due to material adverse event contractual clauses. Most of FirstEnergys surety bonds are backed by various indemnities common within the insurance industry. Surety bonds and related guarantees of $82 million provide additional assurance to outside parties that contractual and statutory obligations will be met in a number of areas including construction contracts, environmental commitments and various retail transactions. In addition to guarantees and surety bonds, FES contracts, including power contracts with affiliates awarded through competitive bidding processes, typically contain margining provisions which require the posting of cash or LOCs in amounts determined by future power price movements. Based on FES power portfolio as of December 31, 2010, and forward prices as of that date, FES has posted collateral of $185 million. Under a hypothetical adverse change in forward prices (95% confidence level change in forward prices over a one year time horizon), FES would be required to post an additional $28 million. Depending on the volume of forward contracts and future price movements, FES could be required to post higher amounts for margining. In connection with FES obligations to post and maintain collateral under the two year PSA entered into by FES and the Ohio Companies following the CBP auction on May 13 14, 2009, NGC entered into a Surplus Margin Guaranty in an amount up to $500 million. The Surplus Margin Guaranty is secured by an NGC FMB issued in favor of the Ohio Companies. FES debt obligations are generally guaranteed by its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, and FES guarantees the debt obligations of each of FGCO and NGC. Accordingly, present and future holders of indebtedness of FES, FGCO and NGC will have claims against each of FES, FGCO and NGC regardless of whether their primary obligor is FES, FGCO or NGC. As noted above under Capital Resources and Liquidity, FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II LLC have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility entered into by Signal Peak and Global Rail. In addition, FEV and the other entities that directly own the equity interest in the borrowers have pledged those interests to the banks as collateral for the facility. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS FES and the Ohio Companies have obligations that are not included on their Consolidated Balance Sheets related to sale and leaseback arrangements involving the Bruce Mansfield Plant, Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2, which are satisfied through operating lease payments. The total present value of these sale and leaseback operating lease commitments, net of trust investments, was $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2010. MARKET RISK INFORMATION FirstEnergy uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. 80 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk FirstEnergy is exposed to financial and market risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices associated with electricity, energy transmission, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and emission allowances. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FirstEnergy uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FirstEnergy relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FirstEnergy uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (331 ) (157 ) (52 ) (36 ) (576 ) Prices based on models 24 110 134 Total(3) $ (331 ) $ (157 ) $ (52 ) $ (36 ) $ 24 $ 110 $ (442 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $335 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. FirstEnergy performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $16 million ($10 million net of tax) during the next 12 months. Interest Rate Swap Agreements Fair Value Hedges FirstEnergy has used fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements to hedge a portion of the consolidated interest rate risk associated with the debt portfolio of its subsidiaries. These derivatives were treated as fair value hedges of fixed rate, long term debt issues, protecting against the risk of changes in the fair value of fixed rate debt instruments due to lower interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, no fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements were outstanding. Total unamortized gains included in long term debt associated with prior fixed for floating interest rate swap agreements totaled $124 million ($80 million net of tax) as of December 31, 2010. Based on current estimates, approximately $22 million will be amortized to interest expense during the next twelve months. Reclassifications from long term debt into interest expense totaled $12 million during 2010. Interest Rate Risk FirstEnergys exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities. As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, FirstEnergys investments in capital trusts effectively reduce future lease obligations, also reducing interest rate risk. 81 Table of Contents Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 80 $ 90 $ 101 $ 110 $ 76 $ 1,755 $ 2,212 $ 2,304 Average interest rate 8.4 % 8 % 8 % 8 % 8.1 % 5.7 % 6.2 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 437 $ 94 $ 551 $ 536 $ 629 $ 10,504 $ 12,751 $ 13,668 Average interest rate 5.7 % 7.8 % 5.8 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 6.3 % 6.1 % Variable rate $ 350 $ 827 $ 1,177 $ 1,177 Average interest rate 2.5 % 0.3 % 1 % Short term Borrowings: $ 700 $ 700 $ 700 Average interest rate 0.7 % 0.7 % Equity Price Risk FirstEnergy provides a noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plan provides defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. FirstEnergy also provides health care benefits (which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments) upon retirement to employees hired prior to January 1, 2005, their dependents, and under certain circumstances, their survivors. The benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date or as significant triggering events occur. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 28% of the pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, 50% invested in fixed income securities, 11% invested in absolute return strategies, 6% invested in real estate, 4% invested in private equity and 1% invested in cash. The plan is 83% funded on an accumulated benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2010. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys pension plan assets could result in additional funding requirements. FirstEnergy intends to voluntarily contribute $250 million to its pension plan in 2011. Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy NGCs and the Utilities nuclear decommissioning obligations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 73% of the funds were invested in fixed income securities, 17% of the funds were invested in equity securities and 10% were invested in short term investments, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. The investments are carried at their market values of approximately $1,454 million, $337 million and $189 million for fixed income securities, equity securities and short term investments, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $34 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trusts of JCPL and the Pennsylvania Companies are subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. NGC, OE and TE recognize in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trusts as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees, and $6 million was contributed to the JCPL and Pennsylvania nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with regulatory requirements. FirstEnergy continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of these nuclear facilities. 82 Table of Contents CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. FirstEnergy engages in transactions for the purchase and sale of commodities including gas, electricity, coal and emission allowances. These transactions are often with major energy companies within the industry. FirstEnergy maintains credit policies with respect to its counterparties to manage overall credit risk. This includes performing independent risk evaluations, actively monitoring portfolio trends and using collateral and contract provisions to mitigate exposure. As part of its credit program, FirstEnergy aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (SP). As of December 31, 2010, the largest credit concentration was with J.P. Morgan Chase Co., which is currently rated investment grade, representing 10.9% of FirstEnergys total approved credit risk composed of 3.3% for FES, 2.2% for JCPL, 2.7% for Met Ed and a combined 2.7% for OE, TE and CEI. REGULATORY MATTERS Regulatory assets that do not earn a current return totaled approximately $215 million as of December 31, 2010 (JCPL $38 million, Met Ed $131 million, Penelec $12 million, CEI $16 million and OE $18 million). Regulatory assets not earning a current return (primarily for certain regulatory transition costs and employee postretirement benefits) are expected to be recovered by 2014 for JCPL and by 2020 for Met Ed and Penelec. FirstEnergy and the Utilities prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulation. Under this guidance, regulatory assets represent incurred or accrued costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent the recovery of costs or accrued liabilities that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates. The following table provides the balance of regulatory assets by Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and changes during 2010: December 31, December 31, Increase Regulatory Assets 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) OE $ 400 $ 465 $ (65 ) CEI 370 546 (176 ) TE 72 70 2 JCPL 513 888 (375 ) Met Ed 296 357 (61 ) Penelec 163 9 154 Other 12 21 (9 ) Total $ 1,826 $ 2,356 $ (530 ) The following table provides information about the composition of regulatory assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and the changes during 2010: December 31, December 31, Increase Regulatory Assets by Source 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Regulatory transition costs $ 770 $ 1,100 $ (330 ) Customer shopping incentives 154 (154 ) Customer receivables for future income taxes 326 329 (3 ) Loss on reacquired debt 48 51 (3 ) Employee postretirement benefits 16 23 (7 ) Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (184 ) (162 ) (22 ) Asset removal costs (237 ) (231 ) (6 ) MISO/PJM transmission costs 184 148 36 Deferred generation costs 386 369 17 Distribution costs 426 482 (56 ) Other 91 93 (2 ) Total $ 1,826 $ 2,356 $ (530 ) 83 Table of Contents Ohio The Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2011, that provides for generation supplied through a CBP. The ESP also allows the Ohio Companies to collect a delivery service improvement rider (Rider DSI) at an overall average rate of $0.002 per KWH for the period of April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. The Ohio Companies currently purchase generation at the average wholesale rate of a CBP conducted in May 2009. FES is one of the suppliers to the Ohio Companies through the May 2009 CBP. The PUCO approved a $136.6 million distribution rate increase for the Ohio Companies in January 2009, which went into effect on January 23, 2009 for OE ($68.9 million) and TE ($38.5 million) and on May 1, 2009 for CEI ($29.2 million). Applications for rehearing of the PUCO order in the distribution case were filed by the Ohio Companies and one other party. The Ohio Companies raised numerous issues in their application for rehearing related to rate recovery of certain expenses, recovery of line extension costs, the level of rate of return and the amount of general plant balances. On February 2, 2011, the PUCO issued an Entry on Rehearing denying the applications for rehearing filed both by the Ohio Companies and by the other party. On March 23, 2010, the Ohio Companies filed an application for a new ESP. The new ESP will go into effect on June 1, 2011 and conclude on May 31, 2014. The PUCO approved the new ESP on August 25, 2010 with certain modifications. The material terms of the new ESP include: a CBP similar to the one used in May 2009 and the one proposed in the October 2009 MRO filing; a 6% generation discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (initial auctions scheduled for October 20, 2010 and January 25, 2011); no increase in base distribution rates through May 31, 2014; a load cap of no less than 80%, which also applies to any tranches assigned post auction; and a new distribution rider, Delivery Capital Recovery Rider (Rider DCR), to recover a return of, and on, capital investments in the delivery system. Rider DCR substitutes for Rider DSI which terminates under the current ESP. The Ohio Companies also agreed not to pay certain costs related to the companies integration into PJM, for the longer of the five year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2016 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million dependent on the outcome of certain PJM proceedings, established a $12 million fund to assist low income customers over the term of the ESP, and agreed to additional energy efficiency benefits. Many of the existing riders approved in the previous ESP remain in effect, some with modifications. The new ESP resolved proceedings pending at the PUCO regarding corporate separation, elements of the smart grid proceeding and the integration into PJM. FirstEnergy recorded approximately $39.5 million of regulatory asset impairments and expenses related to the ESP. On September 24, 2010, an application for rehearing was filed by the OCC and two other parties. On February 9, 2011, the PUCO issued an Entry on Rehearing denying the applications for rehearing. Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately 166,000 MWH in 2009, 290,000 MWH in 2010, 410,000 MWH in 2011, 470,000 MWH in 2012 and 530,000 MWH in 2013, with additional savings required through 2025. Utilities are also required to reduce peak demand in 2009 by 1%, with an additional 0.75% reduction each year thereafter through 2018. On December 15, 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required three year portfolio plan seeking approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand reduction requirements for the 2010 2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers. The Ohio Companies three year portfolio plan is still awaiting decision from the PUCO, which is delaying the launch of the programs described in the plan. As a result, the Ohio Companies filed on January 11, 2011, a request for amendment of OEs 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks to levels actually achieved in 2010. Because the Commission indicated that it would revise all of the Ohio Companies 2010, 2011, and 2012 benchmarks when addressing the Ohio Companies three year portfolio plan, and an order has yet to be issued on that plan, CEI and TE also requested a waiver of their respective yet to be defined 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks if and only to the degree one is deemed necessary to bring these companies into compliance with their 2010 energy efficiency obligations. Failure to comply with the benchmarks or to obtain such an amendment may subject the Companies to an assessment by the PUCO of a penalty. 84 Table of Contents Additionally under SB221, electric utilities and electric service companies are required to serve part of their load from renewable energy resources equivalent to 0.25% of the KWH they served in 2009. In August and October 2009, the Ohio Companies conducted RFPs to secure RECs. The RFPs sought RECs, including solar RECs and RECs generated in Ohio in order to meet the Ohio Companies alternative energy requirements as set forth in SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. The RECs acquired through these two RFPs were used to help meet the renewable energy requirements established under SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. On March 10, 2010, the PUCO found that there was an insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market. The PUCO reduced the Ohio Companies aggregate 2009 benchmark to the level of solar RECs the Ohio Companies acquired through their 2009 RFP processes, provided the Ohio Companies 2010 alternative energy requirements be increased to include the shortfall for the 2009 solar REC benchmark. FES also applied for a force majeure determination from the PUCO regarding a portion of their compliance with the 2009 solar energy resource benchmark, which application is still pending. In July 2010, the Ohio Companies initiated an additional RFP to secure RECs and solar RECs needed to meet the Ohio Companies alternative energy requirements as set forth in SB221 for 2010 and 2011. As a result of this RFP, contracts were executed in August 2010. On January 11, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO seeking an amendment to each of their 2010 alternative energy requirements for solar RECs generated in Ohio due to the insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market. The PUCO has not yet ruled on that application. On February 12, 2010, OE and CEI filed an application with the PUCO to establish a new credit for all electric customers. On March 3, 2010, the PUCO ordered that rates for the affected customers be set at a level that will provide bill impacts commensurate with charges in place on December 31, 2008 and authorized the Ohio Companies to defer incurred costs equivalent to the difference between what the affected customers would have paid under previously existing rates and what they pay with the new credit in place. Tariffs implementing this new credit went into effect on March 17, 2010. On April 15, 2010, the PUCO issued a Second Entry on Rehearing that expanded the group of customers to which the new credit would apply and authorized deferral for the associated additional amounts. The PUCO also stated that it expected that the new credit would remain in place through at least the 2011 winter season, and charged its staff to work with parties to seek a long term solution to the issue. Tariffs implementing this newly expanded credit went into effect on May 21, 2010, and the proceeding remains open. The hearing in the matter is set to commence on February 16, 2011. Pennsylvania The PPUC adopted a Motion on January 28, 2010 and subsequently entered an Order on March 3, 2010 which denied the recovery of marginal transmission losses through the TSC rider for the period of June 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, and directed Met Ed and Penelec to submit a new tariff or tariff supplement reflecting the removal of marginal transmission losses from the TSC, and instructed Met Ed and Penelec to work with the various intervening parties to file a recommendation to the PPUC regarding the establishment of a separate account for all marginal transmission losses collected from ratepayers plus interest to be used to mitigate future generation rate increases beginning January 1, 2011. On March 18, 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition with the PPUC requesting that it stay the portion of the March 3, 2010 Order requiring the filing of tariff supplements to end collection of costs for marginal transmission losses. By Order entered March 25, 2010, the PPUC granted the requested stay until December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the PPUCs order, Met Ed and Penelec filed the plan to establish separate accounts for marginal transmission loss revenues and related interest and carrying charges and the plan for the use of these funds to mitigate future generation rate increases commencing January 1, 2011. The PPUC approved this plan on June 7, 2010. On April 1, 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania appealing the PPUCs March 3, 2010 Order. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, Met Ed and Penelec believe that they should prevail in the appeal and therefore expect to fully recover the approximately $252.7 million ($188.0 million for Met Ed and $64.7 million for Penelec) in marginal transmission losses for the period prior to January 1, 2011. The argument before the Commonwealth Court, en banc, was held on December 8, 2010. On May 20, 2010, the PPUC approved Met Eds and Penelecs annual updates to their TSC rider for the period June 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The TSC for Met Eds customers was increased to provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010. Met Ed and Penelec filed with the PPUC a generation procurement plan covering the period January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. The plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service through a prudent mix of long term, short term and spot market generation supply with a staggered procurement schedule that varies by customer class, using a descending clock auction. On August 12, 2009, the parties to the proceeding filed a settlement agreement of all but two issues, and the PPUC entered an Order approving the settlement and the generation procurement plan on November 6, 2009. Generation procurement began in January 2010. On February 8, 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its Default Service Plan for the period June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. On July 29, 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs. 85 Table of Contents Met Ed, Penelec and Penn jointly filed a SMIP with the PPUC on August 14, 2009. This plan proposed a 24 month assessment period in which the Pennsylvania Companies will assess their needs, select the necessary technology, secure vendors, train personnel, install and test support equipment, and establish a cost effective and strategic deployment schedule, which currently is expected to be completed in fifteen years. Met Ed, Penelec and Penn estimate assessment period costs of approximately $29.5 million, which the Pennsylvania Companies, in their plan, proposed to recover through an automatic adjustment clause. The ALJs Initial Decision approved the SMIP as modified by the ALJ, including: ensuring that the smart meters to be deployed include the capabilities listed in the PPUCs Implementation Order; denying the recovery of interest through the automatic adjustment clause; providing for the recovery of reasonable and prudent costs net of resulting savings from installation and use of smart meters; and requiring that administrative start up costs be expensed and the costs incurred for research and development in the assessment period be capitalized. On April 15, 2010, the PPUC adopted a Motion by Chairman Cawley that modified the ALJs initial decision, and decided various issues regarding the SMIP for the Pennsylvania Companies. The PPUC entered its Order on June 9, 2010, consistent with the Chairmans Motion. On June 24, 2010, Met Ed, Penelec and Penn filed a Petition for Reconsideration of a single portion of the PPUCs Order regarding the future ability to include smart meter costs in base rates. On August 5, 2010, the PPUC granted in part the petition for reconsideration by deleting language from its original order that would have precluded Met Ed, Penelec and Penn from seeking to include smart meter costs in base rates at a later time. The costs to implement the SMIP could be material. However, assuming these costs satisfy a just and reasonable standard they are expected to be recovered in a rider (Smart Meter Technologies Charge Rider) which was approved when the PPUC approved the SMIP. By Tentative Order entered September 17, 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional 30 day comment period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met Ed and Penelec were going to implement direct access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met Ed and Penelec to apply over collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non NUG stranded costs when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various parties filed comments objecting to the above accounting method utilized by Met Ed and Penelec. Met Ed and Penelec are awaiting further action by the PPUC. New Jersey JCPL is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which its costs of supplying BGS to non shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG agreements, and certain other stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy and capacity. As of December 31, 2010, the accumulated deferred cost balance was a credit of approximately $37 million. To better align the recovery of expected costs, on July 26, 2010, JCPL filed a request to decrease the amount recovered for the costs incurred under the NUG agreements by $180 million annually. On February 10, 2011, the NJBPU approved a stipulation which allows the change in rates to become effective March 1, 2011. On March 13, 2009, JCPL filed its annual SBC Petition with the NJBPU that includes a request for a reduction in the level of recovery of TMI 2 decommissioning costs based on an updated TMI 2 decommissioning cost analysis dated January 2009 estimated at $736 million (in 2003 dollars). This matter is currently pending before the NJBPU. New Jersey statutes require that the state periodically undertake a planning process, known as the EMP, to address energy related issues including energy security, economic growth, and environmental impact. The NJBPU adopted an order establishing the general process and contents of specific EMP plans that must be filed by New Jersey electric and gas utilities in order to achieve the goals of the EMP. On April 16, 2010, the NJBPU issued an order indefinitely suspending the requirement of New Jersey utilities to submit Utility Master Plans until such time as the status of the EMP has been made clear. At this time, FirstEnergy and JCPL cannot determine the impact, if any, the EMP may have on their operations. 86 Table of Contents FERC Matters Rates for Transmission Service Between MISO and PJM On November 18, 2004, the FERC issued an order eliminating the through and out rate for transmission service between the MISO and PJM regions. The FERCs intent was to eliminate multiple transmission charges for a single transaction between the MISO and PJM regions. The FERC also ordered MISO, PJM and the transmission owners within MISO and PJM to submit compliance filings containing a rate mechanism to recover lost transmission revenues created by elimination of this charge (referred to as SECA) during a 16 month transition period. In 2005, the FERC set the SECA for hearing. The presiding ALJ issued an initial decision on August 10, 2006, rejecting the compliance filings made by MISO, PJM and the transmission owners, and directing new compliance filings. This decision was subject to review and approval by the FERC. On May 21, 2010, FERC issued an order denying pending rehearing requests and an Order on Initial Decision which reversed the presiding ALJs rulings in many respects. Most notably, these orders affirmed the right of transmission owners to collect SECA charges with adjustments that modestly reduce the level of such charges, and changes to the entities deemed responsible for payment of the SECA charges. The Ohio Companies were identified as load serving entities responsible for payment of additional SECA charges for a portion of the SECA period (Green Mountain/Quest issue). FirstEnergy executed settlements with AEP, Dayton and the Exelon parties to fix FirstEnergys liability for SECA charges originally billed to Green Mountain and Quest for load that returned to regulated service during the SECA period. The AEP, Dayton and Exelon, settlements were approved by FERC on November 23, 2010, and the relevant payments made. Rehearings remain pending in this proceeding. PJM Transmission Rate On April 19, 2007, FERC issued an order (Opinion 494) finding that the PJM transmission owners existing license plate or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at 500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a postage stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a load flow methodology (DFAX), which is generally referred to as a beneficiary pays approach to allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities. The FERCs Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which issued a decision on August 6, 2009. The court affirmed FERCs ratemaking treatment for existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate costs for new 500 kV facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded the rate design issue back to FERC. In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for paper hearings meaning that FERC called for parties to submit comments or written testimony pursuant to the schedule described in the order. FERC identified nine separate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJMs filing demonstrated that allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results in certain eastern utilities in PJM bearing the majority of their costs. Numerous parties filed responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Certain eastern utilities and their state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a load ratio share basis. FERC is expected to act by May 31, 2011. RTO Realignment On December 17, 2009, FERC issued an order approving, subject to certain future compliance filings, ATSIs withdrawal from MISO and integration into PJM. This move, which is expected to be effective on June 1, 2011, allows FirstEnergy to consolidate its transmission assets and operations into PJM. Currently, FirstEnergys transmission assets and operations are divided between PJM and MISO. The realignment will make the transmission assets that are part of ATSI, whose footprint includes the Ohio Companies and Penn, part of PJM. In the order, FERC approved FirstEnergys proposal to use a FRR Plan to obtain capacity to satisfy the PJM capacity requirements for the 2011 12 and 2012 13 delivery years. FirstEnergy successfully conducted the FRR auctions on March 19, 2010. Moreover, the ATSI zone loads participated in the PJM base residual auction for the 2013 delivery year. Successful completion of these steps secured the capacity necessary for the ATSI footprint to meet PJMs capacity requirements. On August 25, 2010, the PUCO issued an order in the 2010 ESP Case approving a settlement that, among other things, called for the PUCO to withdraw its opposition to the RTO consolidation. In addition, the order approved a wholesale procurement process, and certain retail choice policies, that reflected ATSIs entry into PJM on June 1, 2011. 87 Table of Contents On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJMs tariffs. FirstEnergy expects ATSI to enter PJM on June 1, 2011, and that if legal proceedings regarding its rate are outstanding at that time, ATSI will be permitted to start charging its proposed rates, subject to refund. Additional FERC proceedings are either pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the ATSI zone upon its withdrawal from the Midwest ISO will be determined. In addition, certain parties may protest other aspects of ATSIs integration into PJM, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved in future FERC proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. MISO Multi Value Project Rule Proposal On July 15, 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission projects described as MVPs are a class of MTEP projects. The filing parties proposed to allocate the costs of MVPs by means of a usage based charge that will be applied to all loads within the MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be wheeled through the MISO as well as to energy transactions that source in the MISO but sink outside of MISO. The filing parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the east. The filing parties requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISOs Board approved the first MVP project the Michigan Thumb Project. Under MISOs proposal, the costs of MVP projects approved by MISOs Board prior to the anticipated June 1, 2011 effective date of FirstEnergys integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated that approximately $11 million in annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion. On September 10, 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISOs proposal to allocate costs of MVP projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the beneficiary pays approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress to date in the ATSI integration into PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI. Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISOs MVP proposal. On December 16, 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change. FERCs order was not clear, however, as to whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISOs tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attach prior to ATSIs exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERCs order and would be addressed in future proceedings. On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy filed for rehearing of FERCs order. In its rehearing request, the Company argued that because the MVP rate is usage based, costs could not be applied to ATSI, which is a stand alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the ATSI zone or to ATSI. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings at this time. Sales to Affiliates FES has received authorization from FERC to make wholesale power sales to the Utilities. FES actively participates in auctions conducted by or on behalf of the Utilities to obtain the power and related services necessary to meet the Utilities POLR obligations. Because of the merger with FirstEnergy, AS is considered an affiliate of the Utilities for purposes of FERCs affiliate restriction regulations. This requires AS to obtain prior FERC authorization to make sales to the Utilities when it successfully participates in the Utilities POLR auctions. FES currently supplies the Ohio Companies with a portion of their capacity, energy, ancillary services and transmission under a Master SSO Supply Agreement for a two year period ending May 31, 2011. FES won 51 tranches in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by the Ohio Companies and their consultant, CRA International on May 13 14, 2009. Other winning suppliers have assigned their Master SSO Supply Agreements to FES, five of which were effective in June, two more in July, four more in August and ten more in September, 2009. FES also supplies power used by Constellation to serve an additional five tranches. As a result of these arrangements, FES serves 77 tranches, or 77% of the POLR load of the Ohio Companies until May 31, 2011. On October 20, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by the Ohio Companies and their consultant, CRA International, for the following periods: June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012; June 1, 2011, through May 31, 2013; and June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2014. The Ohio Companies offered 17, 17, and 16 tranches for these periods, respectively. FES won 10, 7, and 3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. On January 25, 2011, the Ohio Companies conducted a second auction offering the same product for identical time periods. FES won 3, 0, and 3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. FES entered into a Master SSO Supply Agreement to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs to the Ohio Companies for the tranches won. Under the ESP in effect for these time periods, the Ohio Companies are responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM for POLR service. 88 Table of Contents On October 18, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by both Met Ed and Penelec and their consultant, National Economic Research Associates (NERA) for the following tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 5 month, Residential 24 month, Commercial 5 month, Commercial 12 month and Industrial 12 month. All 5 month delivery periods are from January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2011, all 12 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012 while all 24 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. Met Ed offered 7 Residential 5 month tranches, 4 Residential 24 month tranches, 6 Commercial 5 month tranches, 6 Commercial 12 month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche while Penelec offered 5 Residential 5 month tranches, 3 Residential 24 month tranches, 5 Commercial 5 month tranches, 5 Commercial 12 month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche. For Met Ed offerings, FES won 4 Residential 5 month tranches, 2 Residential 24 month tranches, 1 Commercial 5 month tranche, 1 Commercial 12 month tranche and zero Industrial tranches. For Penelec offerings, FES won 1 Residential 5 month tranche, 1 Residential 24 month tranche, zero Commercial 5 month tranches, zero Commercial 12 month tranches and zero Industrial tranches. FES entered into separate Supplier Master Agreements (SMA) to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs with Met Ed and Penelec for each product won. Under the terms and conditions of the SMA, Met Ed and Penelec are responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM. On January 18 to 20, 2011 FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by Met Ed, Penelec, and Penn Power and their consultant, NERA for the following tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 12 month, Residential 24 month, Commercial 12 month and Industrial 12 month. All 12 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012 while all 24 month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. Met Ed offered 3 Residential 12 month tranches, 4 Residential 24 month tranches, 6 Commercial 12 month tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penelec offered 3 Residential 12 month tranches, 2 Residential 24 month tranches, 5 Commercial 12 month tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penn Power offered 2 Residential 12 month tranches, 1 Residential 24 month tranche, 3 Commercial 12 month tranches and 3 Industrial tranches. For Met Ed offerings, FES won 1 Commercial 12 month tranche and zero for the remaining products. For Penelec and Penn Power offerings, FES won no tranches. FES entered into a SMA to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs with Met Ed for the product won. Under the terms and conditions of the SMA, Met Ed is responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM. Reliability Initiatives Federally enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk power system and impose certain operating, record keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, FGCO, FENOC and ATSI. The NERC, as the ERO is charged with establishing and enforcing these reliability standards, although it has delegated day to day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to eight regional entities, including ReliabilityFirst Corporation. All of FirstEnergys facilities are located within the ReliabilityFirst region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and ReliabilityFirst stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by the ReliabilityFirst Corporation. FirstEnergy believes that it generally is in compliance with all currently effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases self reporting an item to ReliabilityFirst. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, ReliabilityFirst and the FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying with new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time; however, 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the new reliability standards be recovered in rates. Still, any future inability on FirstEnergys part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 9, 2008, a transformer at JCPLs Oceanview substation failed, resulting in an outage on certain bulk electric system (transmission voltage) lines out of the Oceanview and Atlantic substations resulting in customers losing power for up to eleven hours. On March 31, 2009, the NERC initiated a Compliance Violation Investigation in order to determine JCPLs contribution to the electrical event and to review any potential violation of NERC Reliability Standards associated with the event. NERC has submitted first and second Requests for Information regarding this and another related matter. JCPL is complying with these requests. JCPL is not able to predict what actions, if any, that the NERC may take with respect to this matter. 89 Table of Contents On August 23, 2010, FirstEnergy self reported to ReliabilityFirst a vegetation encroachment event on a Met Ed 230 kV line. This event did not result in a fault, outage, operation of protective equipment, or any other meaningful electric effect on any FirstEnergy transmission facilities or systems. On August 25, 2010, ReliabilityFirst issued a Notice of Enforcement to investigate the incident. FirstEnergy submitted a data response to ReliabilityFirst on September 27, 2010. At this time, FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of this investigation. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations. Clean Air Act Compliance FirstEnergy is required to meet federally approved SO2 and NOx emissions regulations under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) under the CAA by burning lower sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower emitting plants and or using emission allowances. Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and or civil or criminal penalties. The Sammis, Eastlake and Mansfield coal fired plants are operated under a consent decree with the EPA and DOJ that requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions through the installation of pollution control devices or repowering. OE and Penn are subject to stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls or complete repowering in accordance with that agreement. In July 2008, three complaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Bruce Mansfield Plant air emissions. Two of these complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty one individuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in those three complaints. The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at the Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met Ed in 1999) and Met Ed. Specifically, these suits allege that modifications at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program, and seek injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009, the Court granted Met Eds motion to dismiss New Jerseys and Connecticuts claims for injunctive relief against Met Ed, but denied Met Eds motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The parties dispute the scope of Met Eds indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy. In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn alleging NSR violations at the Portland Generation Station based on modifications dating back to 1986 and also alleged NSR violations at the Keystone and Shawville Stations based on modifications dating back to 1984. Met Ed, JCPL, as the former owner of 16.67% of the Keystone Station, and Penelec, as former owner and operator of the Shawville Station, are unable to predict the outcome of this matter. In June 2008, the EPA issued a Notice and Finding of Violation to Mission Energy Westside, Inc. alleging that modifications at the Homer City Power Station occurred since 1988 to the present without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program. In May 2010, the EPA issued a second NOV to Mission Energy Westside, Inc., Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in the Homer City Power Station containing in all material respects identical allegations as the June 2008 NOV. On July 20, 2010, the states of New York and Pennsylvania provided Mission Energy Westside, Inc., Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in the Homer City Power Station a notification that was required 60 days prior to filing a citizen suit under the CAA. In January, 2011, the DOJ filed a complaint against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on alleged modifications at the Homer City Power Station between 1991 to 1994 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD and Title V permitting programs. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG, and various current owners of the Homer City Station, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. In addition, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of New York intervened and have filed a separate complaint regarding the Homer City Station. Mission Energy Westside, Inc. is seeking indemnification from Penelec, the co owner and operator of the Homer City Power Station prior to its sale in 1999. The scope of Penelecs indemnity obligation to and from Mission Energy Westside, Inc. is under dispute and Penelec is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 90 Table of Contents In January 2011, a complaint was filed against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on the Homer City Stations air emissions. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG and various current owners of the Homer City Station, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. The complaint also seeks certification as a class action and to enjoin the Homer City Station from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner. Penelec believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in the complaint. In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, including the PSD, NNSR, and Title V regulations at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula generating plants. The EPAs NOV alleges equipment replacements occurring during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre construction permitting requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO received a request for certain operating and maintenance information and planning information for these same generating plants and notification that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake generating plant may constitute a major modification under the NSR provision of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake generating plant. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPAs information requests, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. National Ambient Air Quality Standards The EPAs CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in its entirety and directed the EPA to redo its analysis from the ground up. In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Courts opinion. The Court ruled in a different case that a cap and trade program similar to CAIR, called the NOx SIP Call, cannot be used to satisfy certain CAA requirements (known as reasonably available control technology) for areas in non attainment under the 8 hour ozone NAAQS. In July 2010, the EPA proposed the CATR to replace CAIR, which remains in effect until the EPA finalizes CATR. CATR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.6 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. The EPA proposed a preferred regulatory approach that allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and severely limits interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances. The EPA also requested comment on two alternative approaches the first eliminates interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances and the second eliminates trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances in its entirety. Depending on the actions taken by the EPA with respect to CATR, the proposed MACT regulations discussed below and any future regulations that are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance may be substantial. Management continues to assess the impact of these environmental proposals and other factors on FGCOs facilities, particularly on the operation of its smaller, non supercritical units. In August 2010, for example, management decided to idle certain units or operate them on a seasonal basis until developments clarify. Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions The EPAs CAMR provides for a cap and trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping nationwide emissions of mercury at 38 tons by 2010 (as a co benefit from implementation of SO2 and NOx emission caps under the EPAs CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, at the urging of several states and environmental groups, vacated the CAMR, ruling that the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to de list coal fired power plants from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a cap and trade program. On April 29, 2010, the EPA issued proposed MACT regulations requiring emissions reductions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from non electric generating unit boilers. If finalized, the non electric generating unit MACT regulations could also provide precedent for MACT standards applicable to electric generating units. On January 20, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia denied a motion by the EPA for an extension of the deadline to issue final rules, ordering the EPA to issue such rules by February 21, 2011. The EPA also entered into a consent decree requiring it to propose MACT regulations for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units by March 16, 2011, and to finalize the regulations by November 16, 2011. Depending on the action taken by the EPA and on how any future regulations are ultimately implemented, FGCOs future cost of compliance with MACT regulations may be substantial and changes to FGCOs operations may result. 91 Table of Contents Climate Change There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, on June 26, 2009. The Senate continues to consider a number of measures to regulate GHG emissions. President Obama has announced his Administrations New Energy for America Plan that includes, among other provisions, ensuring that 10% of electricity used in the United States comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing to 25% by 2025, and implementing an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050. State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states, led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs. In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that will require FirstEnergy to measure GHG emissions commencing in 2010 and submit reports commencing in 2011. In December 2009, the EPA released its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act. The EPAs finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years 2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light duty trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles and clarified that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAAs NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) effective January 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the CAAs PSD program, but until July 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if PSD is triggered by non carbon dioxide pollutants. At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non binding political agreement which recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees Celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate related activities in developing countries. Once they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification. On September 21, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and on October 16, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global warming and result in property damages. On December 6, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to the Second Circuit in Connecticut v. AEP. Briefing and oral argument are expected to be completed in early 2011 and a decision issued in or around June 2011. While FirstEnergy is not a party to this litigation, FirstEnergy and or one or more of its subsidiaries could be named in actions making similar allegations. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non CO2 emitting gas fired and nuclear generators. Clean Water Act Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations. 92 Table of Contents The EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). The EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. On April 1, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuits opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. The EPA is developing a new regulation under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act consistent with the opinions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals which have created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final performance standard. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plants water intake channel to divert fish away from the plants water intake system. On November 19, 2010, the Ohio EPA issued a permit for the Bay Shore power plant requiring installation of reverse louvers in its entire water intake channel by December 31, 2014. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. In June 2008, the U.S. Attorneys Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is considering prosecution under the Clean Water Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27, 2007. FGCO is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. Regulation of Waste Disposal Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPAs evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste. On December 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the EPA said that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. On May 4, 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FGCOs future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. The Utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the Utilities proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $104 million (JCPL $69 million, TE $1 million, CEI $1 million, FGCO $1 million and FirstEnergy $32 million) have been accrued through December 31, 2010. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $64 million for environmental remediation of former MGPs and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCPL through a non bypassable SBC. OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Power Outages and Related Litigation In July 1999, the Mid Atlantic States experienced a severe heat wave, which resulted in power outages throughout the service territories of many electric utilities, including JCPLs territory. Two class action lawsuits (subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding) were filed in New Jersey Superior Court in July 1999 against JCPL, GPU and other GPU companies, seeking compensatory and punitive damages due to the outages. After various motions, rulings and appeals, the Plaintiffs claims for consumer fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, strict product liability and punitive damages were dismissed, leaving only the negligence and breach of contract causes of actions. On July 29, 2010, the Appellate Division upheld the trial courts decision decertifying the class. Plaintiffs have filed, and JCPL has opposed, a motion for leave to appeal to the New Jersey Supreme Court. JCPL is waiting for the Courts decision. 93 Table of Contents Litigation Relating to the Proposed Allegheny Merger In connection with the proposed merger (Note 22), purported shareholders of Allegheny have filed putative shareholder class action and or derivative lawsuits against Allegheny and its directors and certain officers, referred to as the Allegheny Energy defendants, FirstEnergy and Merger Sub. Four putative class action and derivative lawsuits were filed in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland (Maryland Court). One was withdrawn. The Maryland Court has consolidated the remaining three cases under the caption: In re Allegheny Energy Shareholder and Derivative Litigation, C.A. No. 24 C 10 1301. Three shareholder lawsuits were filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania and the court has consolidated these actions under the caption: In re Allegheny Energy, Inc. Shareholder Class and Derivative, Litigation, Lead Case No. 1101 of 2010. One putative shareholder class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania and is captioned Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System v. Evanson, et al., C.A. No. 10 319 NBF. In summary, the lawsuits allege, among other things, that the Allegheny Energy directors breached their fiduciary duties by approving the merger agreement, and that Allegheny, FirstEnergy and Merger Sub aided and abetted in these alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The complaints seek, among other things, jury trials, money damages and injunctive relief. While FirstEnergy believes the lawsuits are without merit and has defended vigorously against the claims, in order to avoid the costs associated with the litigation, the defendants have agreed to the terms of a disclosure based settlement of all these shareholder lawsuits and have reached agreement with counsel for all of the plaintiffs concerning fee applications. Under the terms of the settlement, no payments are being made by FirstEnergy or Merger Sub. A formal stipulation of settlement was filed with the Maryland Court on October 18, 2010 and it was approved and became final on January 12, 2011. The separate Pennsylvania federal and state proceedings were dismissed on January 14, 2011 and January 18, 2011, respectively. The above shareholder actions have been fully and finally resolved. Nuclear Plant Matters During a planned refueling outage that began on February 28, 2010, FENOC conducted a non destructive examination and testing of the CRDM nozzles of the Davis Besse reactor pressure vessel head. FENOC identified flaws in CRDM nozzles that required modification. The NRC was notified of these findings, along with federal, state and local officials. On March 17, 2010, the NRC sent a special inspection team to Davis Besse to assess the adequacy of FENOCs identification, analyses and resolution of the CRDM nozzle flaws and to ensure acceptable modifications were made prior to placing the RPV head back in service. After successfully completing the modifications, FENOC committed to take a number of corrective actions including strengthening leakage monitoring procedures and shutting Davis Besse down no later than October 1, 2011, to replace the reactor pressure vessel head with nozzles made of material less susceptible to primary water stress corrosion cracking, further enhancing the safe and reliable operations of the plant. On June 29, 2010, FENOC returned Davis Besse to service. On September 9, 2010, the NRC held a public exit meeting describing the results of the NRC special inspection team inspection of FENOCs identification of the CRDM nozzles with flaws and the modifications to those nozzles. On October 22, 2010, the NRC issued its final report of the special inspection. The report contained three findings characterized as very low safety significance that were promptly corrected prior to plant operation. On April 5, 2010, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) requested that the NRC issue a Show Cause Order, or otherwise delay the restart of the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station until the NRC determines that adequate protection standards have been met and reasonable assurance exists that these standards will continue to be met after the plants operation is resumed. By a letter dated July 13, 2010, the NRC denied UCSs request for immediate action because the NRC has conducted rigorous and independent assessments of returning the Davis Besse reactor vessel head to service and its continued operation, and determined that it was safe for the plant to restart. The UCS petition was referred to a petition manager for further review. What additional actions, if any, that the NRC takes in response to the UCS request have not been determined. Under NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had approximately $2 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI 2. FirstEnergy provides an additional $15 million parental guarantee associated with the funding of decommissioning costs for these units. As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts fluctuate based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergys obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and its effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the nuclear decommissioning trusts. The NRC issued guidance anticipating an increase in low level radioactive waste disposal costs associated the decommissioning of FirstEnergys nuclear facilities. As a result, FirstEnergys decommissioning funding obligations are expected to increase. FirstEnergy continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of these nuclear facilities. 94 Table of Contents On August 27, 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. On December 27 and 28, 2010, a group of petitioners filed a request for hearing contending that FENOC failed to adequately consider wind or solar generation, or some combination thereof, as an alternative to license extension at Davis Besse. They further argued FENOC had failed to adequately assess the cost of a severe accident at Davis Besse. FENOC and the NRC staff responded to this pleading on January 21, 2011, demonstrating that none of the petitioners arguments were admissible contentions under the National Environmental Policy Act or NRC regulations. An Atomic Safety and Licensing Board panel is expected to determine whether a hearing is necessary. Ohio Legal Matters On February 16, 2010, a class action lawsuit was filed in Geauga County Court of Common Pleas against FirstEnergy, CEI and OE seeking declaratory judgment and injunctive relief, as well as compensatory, incidental and consequential damages, on behalf of a class of customers related to the reduction of a discount that had previously been in place for residential customers with electric heating, electric water heating, or load management systems. The reduction in the discount was approved by the PUCO. On March 18, 2010, the named defendant companies filed a motion to dismiss the case due to the lack of jurisdiction of the court of common pleas. The court granted the motion to dismiss on September 7, 2010. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals of Ohio, which has not yet rendered an opinion. Other Legal Matters There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FirstEnergys normal business operations pending against FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described below. FirstEnergy accrues legal liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. If it were ultimately determined that FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on the above matters, it could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FirstEnergy prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Application of these principles often requires a high degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions that affect financial results. All of FirstEnergy assets are subject to specific risks and uncertainties and are regularly reviewed for impairment. FirstEnergys more significant accounting policies are described below. Revenue Recognition FirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class. Regulatory Accounting FirstEnergys energy delivery services segment is subject to regulation that sets the prices (rates) the Utilities are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine the Utilities are permitted to recover. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets based on anticipated future cash inflows. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Accounting FirstEnergys reported costs of providing noncontributory qualified and non qualified defined pension benefits and OPEB benefits other than pensions are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and certain assumptions. 95 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs are affected by employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions FirstEnergy makes to the plans and earnings on plan assets. Pension and OPEB costs may also be affected by changes to key assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, the discount rates and health care trend rates used in determining the projected benefit obligations for pension and OPEB costs. In accordance with GAAP, changes in pension and OPEB obligations associated with these factors may not be immediately recognized as costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan participants. GAAP delays recognition of changes due to the long term nature of pension and OPEB obligations and the varying market conditions likely to occur over long periods of time. As such, significant portions of pension and OPEB costs recorded in any period may not reflect the actual level of cash benefits provided to plan participants and are significantly influenced by assumptions about future market conditions and plan participants experience. FirstEnergy recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet and recognize changes in funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. The underfunded status of FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB plans at December 31, 2010 was $1.7 billion. FirstEnergy voluntarily intends to contribute $250 million to its pension plan in 2011. In selecting an assumed discount rate, FirstEnergy considers currently available rates of return on high quality fixed income investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The assumed discount rates for pension were 5.50%, 6.00% and 7.00% for December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The assumed discount rates for OPEB were 5.00%, 5.75% and 7.0% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. FirstEnergys assumed rate of return on pension plan assets considers historical market returns and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the pension trusts. In 2010, FirstEnergys qualified pension and OPEB plan assets earned $492 million or 10.1% compared to amounts earned of $570 million or 13.6% in 2009. The qualified pension and OPEB costs in 2010 and 2009 were computed using an assumed 8.5% and 9.0% rate of return, respectively, on plan assets which generated $397 million and $379 million of expected returns on plan assets, respectively. The expected return of pension and OPEB assets is based on the trusts asset allocation targets and the historical performance of risk based and fixed income securities. The gains or losses generated as a result of the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets are deferred and amortized and will increase or decrease future net periodic pension and OPEB cost, respectively. FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB net periodic benefit cost was $138 million in 2010 compared to $197 million in 2009 and credits of $116 million in 2008. FirstEnergy expects the 2011 qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB costs (including amounts capitalized) to be $103 million. On June 2, 2009, FirstEnergy amended the health care benefits plan for all employees and retirees eligible that participate in that plan. The amendment, which reduces future health care coverage subsidies paid by FirstEnergy on behalf of participants, triggered a remeasurement of FirstEnergys other postretirement benefit plans as of May 31, 2009. On September 2, 2009, the Utilities and ATSI made a combined $500 million voluntary contribution to their qualified pension plan. Due to the significance of the voluntary contribution, FirstEnergy elected to remeasure the qualified pension plan as of August 31, 2009. In the third quarter of 2009, FirstEnergy also incurred a $13 million net postretirement benefit cost (including amounts capitalized) related to a liability created by the VERO offered by FirstEnergy to qualified employees. The special termination benefits of the VERO included additional health care coverage subsidies paid by FirstEnergy to those qualified employees who elected to retire. A total of 715 employees accepted the VERO. Health care cost trends continue to increase and will affect future OPEB costs. The 2010 composite health care trend rate assumptions were approximately 8 9%, compared to 8.5 10% in 2009, gradually decreasing to 5% in later years. In determining FirstEnergys trend rate assumptions, included are the specific provisions of FirstEnergys health care plans, the demographics and utilization rates of plan participants, actual cost increases experienced in FirstEnergys health care plans, and projections of future medical trend rates. The effect on the pension and OPEB costs from changes in key assumptions are as follows: Increase in Costs from Adverse Changes in Key Assumptions Assumption Adverse Change Pension OPEB Total (In millions) Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% $ 13 $ 1 $ 14 Long term return on assets Decrease by 0.25% $ 12 $ 1 $ 13 Health care trend rate Increase by 1% N/A $ 4 $ 4 96 Table of Contents Emission Allowances FirstEnergy holds emission allowances for SO2 and NOX in order to comply with programs implemented by the EPA designed to regulate emissions of SO2 and NOX produced by power plants. Emission allowances are either granted by the EPA at zero cost or are purchased at fair value as needed to meet emission requirements. Emission allowances are not purchased with the intent of resale. Emission allowances eligible to be used in the current year are recorded in materials and supplies inventory at the lesser of weighted average cost or market value. Emission allowances eligible for use in future years are recorded as other investments. FirstEnergy recognizes emission allowance costs as fuel expense during the periods that emissions are produced by generating facilities. Excess emission allowances that are not needed to meet emission requirements may be sold and are reported as a reduction to other operating expenses. Long Lived Assets FirstEnergy reviews long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of a long lived asset is measured by comparing the assets carrying value to the sum of undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted future cash flows of the long lived asset, impairment exists and a loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Asset Retirement Obligations FirstEnergy recognizes an ARO for the future decommissioning of FirstEnergys nuclear power plants and future remediation of other environmental liabilities associated with long lived assets. The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of the current obligation related to nuclear decommissioning and the retirement or remediation of environmental liabilities of other assets. A fair value measurement inherently involves uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability. FirstEnergy uses an expected cash flow approach to measure the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning and environmental remediation ARO. This approach applies probability weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes. The scenarios consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the nuclear power plants current license, settlement based on an extended license term and expected remediation dates. Income Taxes We record income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes. Investment tax credits, which were deferred when utilized, are being amortized over the recovery period of the related property. Deferred income tax liabilities related to tax and accounting basis differences and tax credit carryforward items are recognized at the statutory income tax rates in effect when the liabilities are expected to be paid. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on income tax rates expected to be in effect when they are settled. FirstEnergy accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in its financial statements. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. The Company recognizes interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions. That amount is computed by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized and the amount previously taken or expected to be taken on the tax return. FirstEnergy includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes. Goodwill In a business combination, the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. In accordance with accounting standards, if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value (including goodwill), the goodwill is tested for impairment. Impairment is indicated and a loss is recognized if the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value of its goodwill. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 97 Table of Contents FIRSTENERGY SOLUTIONS CORP. MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FES is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES provides energy related products and services, and through its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, owns or leases and operates and maintains FirstEnergys fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities, and owns FirstEnergys nuclear generation facilities, respectively. FENOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains the nuclear generating facilities. FES revenues during 2010 were derived from sales to individual retail customers, sales to communities in the form of government aggregation programs, the sale of electricity to Met Ed and Penelec to meet all of their POLR and default service requirements, and its participation in affiliated and non affiliated POLR auctions. FES sales were primarily concentrated in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey. Beginning in 2011, FES will not be required to supply Met Ed and Penelecs POLR and default service requirements as Met Ed and Penelec will procure power under their Default Service Plans in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions. The demand for electricity produced and sold by FES, along with the price of that electricity, is impacted by conditions in competitive power markets, global economic activity, economic activity in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions and weather conditions. For additional information with respect to FES, please see the information contained in FirstEnergy Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income decreased to $269 million in 2010 compared to $577 million in 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $384 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins. Revenues Excluding the impact of the OVEC sale in both years, total revenues increased $1,267 million in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in direct and government aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies and other wholesale sales. The increase in revenues resulted from the following sources: Increase Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 (Decrease) (In millions) Direct and Government Aggregation $ 2,494 $ 779 $ 1,715 POLR 2,436 2,863 (427 ) Other Wholesale 550 632 (82 ) Transmission 77 73 4 RECs 74 17 57 Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167 ) Other 112 112 Total Revenues $ 5,828 $ 4,728 $ 1,100 98 Table of Contents Direct and government aggregation revenues increased by $1.7 billion due to the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new government aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to 600,000 of such customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009. The decrease in POLR revenues of $427 million was due to lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to the Pennsylvania Companies resulted from FES supplying Met Ed and Penelec with volumes previously supplied through a third party contract and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009. Other wholesale revenues decreased $82 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio, partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM. The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales: Increase Source of Change in Direct and Government Aggregation (Decrease) (In millions) Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $ 1,083 Change in prices (82 ) 1,001 Government Aggregation Effect of increase in sales volumes 704 Change in prices 10 714 Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $ 1,715 Increase Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) POLR: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $ (153 ) Change in prices (274 ) (427 ) Other Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (105 ) Change in prices 23 (82 ) Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $ (509 ) 99 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table summarizes the factors contributing to the changes in fuel and purchased power costs in 2010 compared to 2009: Increase Source of Change in Fuel and Purchased Power (Decrease) (In millions) Fossil Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs $ 34 Change due to volume consumed 207 241 Nuclear Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs 29 Change due to volume consumed 5 34 Non affiliated Purchased Power: Power contract mark to market adjustment (168 ) Change due to decreased unit costs (139 ) Change due to volume purchased 896 589 Affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to increased unit costs 101 Change due to volume purchased 47 148 Net Increase in Fuel and Purchased Power Costs $ 1,012 Fossil fuel costs increased $241 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Increased volumes consumed in 2010 were due to higher sales to direct and government aggregation customers as well as to improved economic conditions. The higher unit prices reflect higher coal transportation charges in 2010 compared to last year. Nuclear fuel costs increased $34 million primarily due to the replacement of nuclear fuel at higher unit costs following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010. Non affiliated purchased power costs increased $589 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec. Affiliated purchased power increased $148 million primarily due to higher unit costs combined with higher volumes purchased from affiliated companies. Other operating expenses increased $96 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the significant growth in FES retail business. Costs increased for transmission expenses, contractor expenses, associated company billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees. Those increases were partially offset by reduced generating plant operating costs due to lower labor and one less nuclear refueling outage in 2010. In 2010 impairment charges of long lived assets increased expenses by $384 million ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units in response to the continued slow economy, lower demand for electricity as well as uncertainty related to proposed new federal environmental regulations. Depreciation expense decreased $16 million principally due to reduced depreciable property associated with the impairments described above and sale of the Sumpter plant in early 2010. General taxes increased $7 million due to sales taxes associated with increased revenues. Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $94 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income of $66 million and a $32 million increase in interest expense (net of capitalized interest) from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010. 100 Table of Contents Market Risk Information FES uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk FES is exposed to financial and market risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices associated with electricity, energy transmission, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and emission allowances. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FES uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FES relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FES uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (115 ) 6 4 7 (98 ) Prices based on models (9 ) (9 ) Total $ (115 ) $ 6 $ 4 $ 7 $ $ (9 ) $ (107 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. FES performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $16 million ($10 million net of tax) during the next 12 months. Interest Rate Risk FES exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for FES investment portfolio and debt obligations. 101 Table of Contents Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 994 $ 994 $ 994 Average interest rate 10.1 % 10.1 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 158 $ 68 $ 75 $ 99 $ 450 $ 2,650 $ 3,500 $ 3,624 Average interest rate 4.6 % 9 % 9 % 7.3 % 5.1 % 5.2 % 5.3 % Variable rate $ 779 $ 779 $ 779 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 12 $ 12 $ 12 Average interest rate 0.6 % 0.6 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy NGCs nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in FESs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $1,139 million as of December 31, 2010. NGC recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trusts as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trusts or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. FES continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. FES engages in transactions for the purchase and sale of commodities including gas, electricity, coal and emission allowances. These transactions are often with major energy companies within the industry. FES maintains credit policies with respect to its counterparties to manage overall credit risk. This includes performing independent risk evaluations, actively monitoring portfolio trends and using collateral and contract provisions to mitigate exposure. As part of its credit program, FES aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (SP). As of December 31, 2010, the largest credit concentration was with J.P. Morgan Chase Co., which is currently rated investment grade, representing 3.3% of FES total approved credit risk. 102 Table of Contents OHIO EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. OE and its wholly owned subsidiary, Penn, conduct business in portions of Ohio and Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric distribution services. They provide generation services to those franchise customers electing to retain OE and Penn as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to OE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $35 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase primarily resulted from lower purchased power costs and other operating costs, partially offset by lower revenues and investment income. Revenues Revenues decreased $681 million, or 27%, in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to a decrease in generation revenues. Distribution revenues increased $6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due to higher residential revenues, partially offset by lower commercial and industrial revenues. Commercial and industrial revenues were primarily impacted by lower average unit prices, resulting from lower transmission rates in 2010. Residential distribution revenues increased due to higher average unit prices resulting from the 2009 ESP and higher KWH deliveries resulting from the warmer conditions (cooling degree days increased 88% in OEs service territory). Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major steel customers and automotive customers, reflecting improving economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 5.5 % Commercial 2.6 % Industrial 9.5 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 5.8 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 33 Commercial (7 ) Industrial (20 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 6 Retail generation revenues decreased $680 million primarily due to lower KWH sales in all customer classes. Lower KWH sales resulted principally from a 36% increase in customer shopping in 2010. That sales reduction was partially offset by increased weather related usage in 2010 as described above. Lower average unit pricing also contributed to the decrease as lower unit prices in the residential class were partially offset by higher unit prices in the commercial and industrial classes. 103 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (26.0 )% Commercial (58.0 )% Industrial (58.2 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (43.3 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (216 ) Commercial (266 ) Industrial (198 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (680 ) Expenses Total expenses decreased $752 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (635 ) Other operating expenses (97 ) Provision for depreciation (1 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net (31 ) General taxes 12 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (752 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower KWH purchases resulting from reduced requirements in 2010 and slightly lower unit costs. The decrease in other operating costs for 2010 was primarily due to lower MISO transmission expenses ($48 million) (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009), the absence in 2010 of costs associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs under OEs 2009 ESP ($18 million) and decreased labor expenses ($12 million). The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to lower MISO transmission cost amortization, partially offset by increased recovery of other regulatory assets. The increase in general taxes was primarily due to higher Ohio KWH taxes in 2010 as compared to 2009 and a $7.1 million Ohio KWH tax adjustment recognized in 2009 related to prior periods. Other Expense Other expense increased $21 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income. 104 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk OEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for OEs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 28 $ 31 $ 37 $ 42 $ 37 $ 138 $ 313 $ 365 Average interest rate 8.7 % 8.7 % 8.8 % 8.8 % 8.9 % 4 % 6.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 1,159 $ 1,159 $ 1,321 Average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % Short term Borrowings: $ 142 $ 142 $ 142 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in OEs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $126 million as of December 31, 2010. OE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trust as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees. OE continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 105 Table of Contents THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CEI is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. CEI conducts business in northeastern Ohio, providing regulated electric distribution services. CEI also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain CEI as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to CEI, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $84 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in earnings was primarily due to the absence in 2010 of one time regulatory charges recognized in 2009 and decreased purchased power costs, other operating costs and amortization, partially offset by decreased revenues and deferrals of new regulatory assets. Revenues Revenues decreased $455 million, or 27%, in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues. Distribution revenues decreased $87 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower average unit prices for all customer classes offset by increased KWH deliveries in all sectors. The lower average unit prices were the result of lower transition rates in 2010. Higher residential deliveries resulted from increased weather related usage in 2010, reflecting a 74% increase in cooling degree days, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days. Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major steel customers (101%) and automotive customers (6%), reflecting improved economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in the 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 5.5 % Commercial 2.9 % Industrial 10.9 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 7.0 % Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (4 ) Commercial (31 ) Industrial (52 ) Decrease in Distribution Revenues $ (87 ) Retail generation revenues decreased $359 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to lower KWH sales to all customer classes. Reduced KWH sales were primarily the result of a 45% increase in customer shopping. Lower KWH sales to residential customers were partially offset by increased KWH deliveries resulting from the previously discussed warmer weather. Decreased volumes were partially offset by higher average unit prices in all customer classes. Retail generation prices increased in 2010 as a result of the CBP auction for the service period beginning June 1, 2009. 106 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (50.3 )% Commercial (67.2 )% Industrial (44.5 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (51.7 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (96 ) Commercial (134 ) Industrial (129 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (359 ) Expenses Total expenses decreased $589 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (490 ) Other operating costs (31 ) Amortization of regulatory assets, net (201 ) Deferral of new regulatory assets 135 General taxes (2 ) Net Decrease in Expenses $ (589 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 primarily due to the previously discussed lower KWH sales requirements. Other operating costs decreased due to lower transmission expenses (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009), labor and employee benefit expenses and the absence in 2010 of certain costs incurred in 2009 associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs. Decreased amortization of regulatory assets was due primarily to the 2009 impairment of CEIs Extended RTC regulatory asset of $216 million in accordance with the PUCO approved ESP. A decrease in the deferral of new regulatory assets was primarily due to CEIs contemporaneous recovery of purchased power costs in 2010. General taxes decreased primarily due to a 2010 favorable property tax settlement in Ohio. 107 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk CEI has little exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates because most of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for CEIs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 53 $ 66 $ 75 $ 80 $ 50 $ 16 $ 340 $ 381 Average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 8 % 7.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 22 $ 325 $ 26 $ 24 $ 1,456 $ 1,853 $ 2,035 Average interest rate 7.7 % 5.8 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 6.8 % 6.7 % Short term Borrowings: $ 106 $ 106 $ 106 Average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 108 Table of Contents THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. TE conducts business in northwestern Ohio, providing regulated electric distribution services. TE also provides generation services to those customers electing to retain TE as their power supplier. For additional information with respect to TE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Earnings available to parent increased by $9 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to decreased net amortization of regulatory assets, purchased power and other operating costs, partially offset by an increase in interest expense and decreases in revenues and investment income. Revenues Revenues decreased $317 million, or 38%, in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues, partially offset by an increase in wholesale generation revenues. Distribution revenues decreased $23 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower unit prices, partially offset by higher KWH deliveries to all customer classes. Lower unit prices are primarily due to lower transmission rates. Higher KWH deliveries were influenced by weather related usage in 2010, reflecting an 85% increase in cooling degree days in TEs service territory, partially offset by a 6% decrease in heating degree days. Increased industrial deliveries were the result of higher KWH deliveries to major automotive customers and steel customers, reflecting improved economic conditions. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 7.6 % Commercial 3.7 % Industrial 12.3 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 8.7 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 1 Commercial (6 ) Industrial (18 ) Net Decrease in Distribution Revenues $ (23 ) Retail generation revenues decreased $307 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower KWH sales to all customer classes and lower unit prices to industrial customers. Lower KWH sales to all customer classes were primarily the result of a 48% increase in customer shopping in 2010, partially offset by higher KWH deliveries resulting from the weather conditions described above. Lower unit prices for industrial customers were primarily due to the absence of TEs fuel cost recovery and rate stabilization riders that were effective from January through May 2009, partially offset by increased generation prices resulting from the CBP auction, effective June 1, 2009. 109 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Decrease Residential (39.8 )% Commercial (69.6 )% Industrial (55.3 )% Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (54.7 )% Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions) Residential $ (60 ) Commercial (112 ) Industrial (135 ) Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (307 ) Wholesale revenues increased $9 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in KWH sales to NGC from TEs leasehold interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2 and higher unit prices. Expenses Total expenses decreased $353 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior period by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (285 ) Other operating expenses (34 ) Provision for depreciation 1 Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (39 ) General taxes 4 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (353 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 compared to 2009, due to lower volumes required as a result of decreased KWH sales. Other operating costs decreased primarily due to reduced transmission expense (assumed by third party suppliers beginning June 1, 2009) and lower costs associated with regulatory obligations for economic development and energy efficiency programs. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to PUCO approved cost deferrals and lower MISO transmission cost amortization in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in general taxes was primarily due to higher Ohio KWH taxes in 2010 as compared to 2009 and a $3.5 million Ohio KWH tax adjustment recognized in 2009 related to prior periods. Other Expense Other expense increased $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to higher interest expense associated with the April 2009 issuance of $300 million senior secured notes and lower nuclear decommissioning trust investment income. 110 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk TE has little exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates because most of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for TEs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 22 $ 25 $ 26 $ 24 $ 48 $ 145 $ 160 Average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 5 % 6.8 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 600 $ 600 $ 653 Average interest rate 6.7 % 6.7 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in TEs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $76 million as of December 31, 2010. TE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their nuclear decommissioning trust as other than temporary impairments. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $4 million was contributed to the OE and TE nuclear decommissioning trusts to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE and TE continue as lessees. TE continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 111 Table of Contents JERSEY CENTRAL POWER LIGHT COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS JCPL is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. JCPL conducts business in New Jersey, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services. JCPL also procures generation services for franchise customers electing to retain JCPL as their power supplier. JCPL procures electric supply to serve its BGS customers through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU. For additional information with respect to JCPL, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income increased by $22 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues, lower purchased power costs and decreased net amortization of regulatory assets, partially offset by increased other operating costs. Revenues Revenues increased by $34 million, or 1%, in 2010 compared with 2009. The increase in revenues was primarily due to higher distribution, wholesale generation and other revenues, partially offset by a decrease in retail generation revenues. Distribution revenues increased by $62 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due to higher KWH deliveries in all customer classes. Increased usage was due to warmer weather and improved economic conditions in JCPLs service territory. Decreased composite unit prices in the commercial and industrial classes partially offset the increased volume. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Sales Increase Residential 8.5 % Commercial 2.6 % Industrial 1.6 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 5.0 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 58 Commercial 5 Industrial (1 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 62 In 2010, retail generation revenues decreased by $72 million due to lower KWH sales to the commercial and industrial classes, partially offset by higher KWH sales to the residential class. Lower sales to the commercial and industrial classes were primarily due to an increase in the number of shopping customers. Higher KWH sales to the residential class reflected increased weather related usage resulting from a 60% increase in cooling degree days in 2010, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days during the same period. 112 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Increase Retail Generation KWH Sales (Decrease) Residential 6.8 % Commercial (26.4 )% Industrial (22.4 )% Net Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (6.2 )% Increase Retail Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 85 Commercial (146 ) Industrial (11 ) Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $ (72 ) Wholesale generation revenues increased $27 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to higher wholesale energy prices. Other revenues increased $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in transition bond revenues as a result of higher KWH deliveries in all customer classes. Expenses Total expenses decreased $29 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ (46 ) Other operating costs 34 Provision for depreciation 4 Amortization of regulatory assets, net (23 ) General taxes 2 Net Decrease in Expenses $ (29 ) Purchased power costs decreased in 2010 primarily from reduced requirements due to lower retail generation sales. Other operating costs increased in 2010 primarily due to major storm clean up costs, partially offset by a favorable collective bargaining settlement that reduced expenses by $7 million in the second quarter of 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased in 2010 primarily due to the deferral of storm costs. 113 Table of Contents Market Risk Information JCPL uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk JCPL is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, JCPL uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, JCPL relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. JCPL uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (94 ) (47 ) (42 ) (34 ) (217 ) Prices based on models (11 ) 3 (8 ) Total(3) $ (94 ) $ (47 ) $ (42 ) $ (34 ) $ (11 ) $ 3 $ (225 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $225 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. JCPL performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on JCPLs consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on JCPLs net income for the next 12 months. Interest Rate Risk JCPLs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for JCPLs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 290 $ 290 $ 290 Average interest rate 3.7 % 3.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 32 $ 34 $ 36 $ 39 $ 41 $ 1,628 $ 1,810 $ 1,962 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.9 % 6 % 6.1 % 6 % 114 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in JCPLs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $185 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of JCPL is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $3 million was contributed to the JCPLs nuclear decommissioning trust to comply with regulatory requirements. JCPL continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 115 Table of Contents METROPOLITAN EDISON COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Met Ed is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Met Ed conducts business in eastern Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services. Met Ed also procures generation service for those customers electing to retain Met Ed as their power supplier. Met Ed purchased its POLR and default service requirements from FES through a fixed price wholesale power sales agreement in 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed procures power under its Default Service Plan in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions. As authorized by Met Eds Board of Directors, Met Ed repurchased 117,620 shares of the Companys common stock from its parent, FirstEnergy, for $150 million on January 28, 2011. For additional information with respect to Met Ed, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income increased by $2 million, or 4%, in 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased revenues and decreased amortization of net regulatory assets, partially offset by increased purchased power and other operating expenses. Revenues Revenue increased $130 million, or 8%, in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting higher distribution and generation revenues, partially offset by a decrease in transmission revenues. Distribution revenues increased $86 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to higher rates resulting from the annual update to Met Eds TSC rider effective June 1, 2010, partially offset by lower CTC rates for the residential class. Higher KWH deliveries to industrial customers were due to improved economic conditions in Met Eds service territory. Higher residential and commercial KWH deliveries reflect increased weather related usage due to a 59% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 3.8 % Commercial 3.1 % Industrial 4.6 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 3.8 % Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions) Residential $ 45 Commercial 28 Industrial 13 Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 86 In 2010, retail generation revenues increased $32 million due to higher composite unit prices and higher KWH sales to the residential customer class, partially offset by lower KWH sales to the commercial and industrial customer classes. The higher unit prices were primarily due to an increase in the generation rate effective January 1, 2010. Higher KWH sales to residential customers increased primarily due to weather related usage described above. Increased customer shopping in the commercial and industrial classes drove the lower KWH sales to those classes. 116 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized in the following tables: Increase Retail Generation KWH Sales (Decrease) Residential 3.8 % Commercial (0.1 )% Industrial (2.8 )% Net Increase in Retail Generation Sales 0.8 % Increase Retail Generation Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 36 Commercial Industrial (4 ) Net Increase in Retail Generation Revenues $ 32 Wholesale revenues increased $29 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily reflecting higher PJM capacity prices. Transmission revenues decreased $19 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to decreased Financial Transmission Rights revenues. Met Ed defers the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased $112 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ 54 Other operating costs 141 Provision for depreciation 1 Amortization of regulatory assets, net (84 ) Net Increase in Expenses $ 112 Purchased power costs increased $54 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to an increase in unit costs. Other operating costs increased $141 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses (see reference to deferral accounting above). The amortization of regulatory assets decreased $84 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher expense deferrals resulting from increased PJM transmission costs and reduced amortization due to decreasing regulatory asset balances. Other Expense Interest income decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to reduced CTC stranded asset balances. That impact was partially offset by lower interest expense due to a $100 million debt repayment in March 2010 and reduced borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. 117 Table of Contents Market Risk Information Med Ed uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company. Commodity Price Risk Met Ed is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Met Ed uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Met Ed relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Met Ed uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (53 ) (48 ) (4 ) (2 ) (107 ) Prices based on models 24 83 107 Total $ (53 ) $ (48 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ 24 $ 83 $ (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and Intercontinental Exchange quotes. Met Ed performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on Met Eds consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Met Eds net income for the next 12 months. 118 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Met Eds exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Met Eds investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 132 $ 132 $ 132 Average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 150 $ 250 $ 314 $ 714 $ 793 Average interest rate 5.0 % 4.9 % 7.6 % 6.1 % Variable rate $ 29 $ 29 $ 29 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 124 $ 124 $ 124 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Met Eds nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $298 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $16 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of Med Ed is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2010, $3 million was contributed to the Met Eds nuclear decommissioning trust to comply with regulatory requirements. Met Ed continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 119 Table of Contents PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC COMPANY MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Penelec is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Penelec conducts business in northern and south central Pennsylvania, providing regulated transmission and distribution services. Penelec also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain Penelec as their power supplier. Penelec purchased its POLR and default service requirements from FES through a fixed price wholesale power sales agreement in 2010. Beginning in 2011, Penelec procures power under its Default Service Plan in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, applicable Transmission Services) are procured through descending clock auctions. For additional information with respect to Penelec, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Postretirement Benefits, Supply Plan, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations. Results of Operations Net income decreased by $6 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to higher purchased power costs, other operating costs and interest expense, partially offset by higher revenues and net deferral of regulatory assets. Revenues Revenues increased by $91 million, or 6%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher generation revenues, partially offset by lower distribution and transmission revenues. Distribution revenues increased by $1 million in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in the universal service and energy efficiency rates for the residential customer class and increased KWH sales in all customer classes, partially offset by a decrease in the CTC rate in all customer classes. Changes in distribution KWH deliveries and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Distribution KWH Deliveries Increase Residential 3.9 % Commercial 3.5 % Industrial 4.8 % Increase in Distribution Deliveries 4.0 % Increase Distribution Revenues (Decrease) (In millions) Residential $ 28 Commercial (16 ) Industrial (11 ) Net Increase in Distribution Revenues $ 1 Retail generation revenues increased $80 million in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to higher unit prices and higher KWH sales in all customer classes. The higher unit prices were primarily due to an increase in the generation rate, effective January 1, 2010. Higher KWH sales to industrial customers were due to improved economic conditions in Penelecs service territory. Higher KWH sales to residential and commercial customers resulted primarily from weather related usage, reflecting a 94% increase in cooling degree days in 2010, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. 120 Table of Contents Changes in retail generation KWH sales and revenues in 2010, compared to 2009, are summarized in the following tables: Retail Generation KWH Sales Increase Residential 3.9 % Commercial 2.7 % Industrial 5.6 % Increase in Retail Generation Sales 3.9 % Retail Generation Revenues Increase (In millions) Residential $ 22 Commercial 30 Industrial 28 Increase in Retail Generation Revenues $ 80 Wholesale generation revenues increased $33 million in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to higher PJM capacity prices. Transmission revenues decreased by $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower Financial Transmission Rights revenue. Penelec defers the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Expenses Total expenses increased $89 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category: Increase Expenses Changes (Decrease) (In millions) Purchased power costs $ 121 Other operating costs 60 Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (91 ) General taxes (1 ) Net Increase in Expenses $ 89 Purchased power costs increased $121 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in unit costs and increased volumes purchased to source increased generation sales requirements. Other operating costs increased $60 million in 2010, primarily due to higher transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses (see reference to deferral accounting above). The amortization (deferral) of net regulatory assets decreased $91 million in 2010, primarily due to increased cost deferrals resulting from higher transmission expenses and decreased amortization of regulatory assets resulting from lower CTC revenues. General taxes decreased $1 million primarily due to a favorable ruling on a property tax appeal in the first quarter of 2010. Other Expense In 2010, other expense increased $15 million primarily due to an increase in interest expense on long term debt as a result of a $500 million debt issuance in September 2009. 121 Table of Contents Market Risk Information Penelec uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight to risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Penelec is exposed to market risk primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission and natural gas prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Penelec uses a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Penelec relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Penelec uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2010 are summarized by contract year in the following table: Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In millions) Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Other external sources(2) (69 ) (68 ) (10 ) (7 ) (154 ) Prices based on models 11 33 44 Total(3) $ (69 ) $ (68 ) $ (10 ) $ (7 ) $ 11 $ 33 $ (110 ) (1) Represents futures and options traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes. (3) Includes $110 million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings. Penelec performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift in quoted market prices in the near term on derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on Penelecs consolidated financial position or cash flows as of December 31, 2010. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2010, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Penelecs net income for the next 12 months. 122 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Penelecs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Penelecs investment portfolio and debt obligations. Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value There Fair Year of Maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Value (In millions) Assets Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $ 149 $ 149 $ 149 Average interest rate 1.7 % 1.7 % Liabilities Long term Debt: Fixed rate $ 150 $ 950 $ 1,100 $ 1,169 Average interest rate 5.1 % 5.8 % 5.7 % Variable rate $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Short term Borrowings: $ 101 $ 101 $ 101 Average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % Equity Price Risk Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Penelecs nuclear decommissioning trust are fixed income, equity securities and short term investments carried at a market value of approximately $156 million as of December 31, 2010. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in an $8 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2010. The decommissioning trust of Penelecs is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of the nuclear decommissioning trust or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Penelec continues to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. 123 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by ITEM 7A relating to market risk is set forth in ITEM 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
