Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant and Subsidiaries and in other sections of this Form 10 K that include forward looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results.Risks Related to Business OperationsRisks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution EquipmentOperation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties.27Operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. Unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer MWH or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.4 billion for FES, $606 million for OE and an aggregate of $587 million for TE and CEI as co lessees.We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes.Changes in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit MarginsWe purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. Changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply POLR and default service obligations in the states we do business. In addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices.Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including:changing weather conditions or seasonality;changes in electricity usage by our customers;illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets;transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies;availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;changes in supply and demand for energy commodities;changes in power production capacity;outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors;changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products;changes in legislation and regulation; andnatural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events.We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge AgainstWe purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market based tariffs authorized by the FERC, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy.We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price 28volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected.The Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses That May Negatively Impact Our Financial ResultsWe use a variety of non derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform.Financial Derivatives Reforms Could Increase Our Liquidity Needs and Collateral Costs and Impose Additional Regulatory BurdensIn July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how OTC derivatives are regulated. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) increased regulatory oversight of OTC derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the CFTC, (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt companies that participate in the swap market as end users for hedging purposes which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us. These requirements could cause our OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements. In addition, as these reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to protect. We rely on the OTC derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. The effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end user through a self identification process, based on the meaning of those terms to be established in the final rules. If we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to register with the CFTC and execute most bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This requirement could require us to commit substantial additional capital to cover increases in collateral costs associated with margin requirements of the major exchanges. We would also be required to comply with increased reporting and record keeping requirements and follow CFTC specified business conduct standards, and adhere to position limits in a potentially broad range of energy commodities. Even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under Dodd Frank, which includes some reporting requirements, clearing some additional transactions that we would otherwise enter into over the counter, and having to adhere to position limits. Also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral OTC swap market to decrease substantially. The new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost effective manner. FirstEnergy cannot predict the ultimate outcome that Dodd Frank will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position.Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit, Are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such PoliciesWe attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. For example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. Also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge.Our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.We also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower priced market or make purchases in a higher priced market than existed at the time of executing 29the contract. Although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then current market prices. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected.Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant DecommissioningWe are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following:the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States;uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; anduncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion.The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. Also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. See "Potential NRC Regulation in Response to the Incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant Could Adversely Effect Our Business and Financial Condition" below and Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We Have a Significant Percentage of Coal Fired Generation Capacity Which Exposes us to Risk from Regulations Relating to Coal and Coal Combustion ResidualsApproximately 65% of FirstEnergys generation fleet capacity is coal fired. Historically, coal fired generating plants face greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to emissions of SO2 and NOx. In addition, the MATS established coal fired emission standards for mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals effective in April 2015, proposed coal combustion residual regulations include an option to reclassify coal ash as a hazardous waste, and there are currently a number of federal, state and international initiatives under consideration to, among other things, require reductions in GHG emissions. These legal requirements and initiatives could require substantial additional costs, extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of GHG requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. Significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. Capital Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Pension Fund Assets, Decommissioning and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require Significant Additional FundingOur financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. The value of certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. If the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Capital market conditions that generate investment losses or increase the present value of liabilities can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and or Penalties Related to Mandatory Reliability Standards Set by NERC/FERC or Changes in the Rules of Organized Markets and the States in Which We Do BusinessAs a result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and approved by FERC as well as mandatory reliability standards and energy efficiency requirements imposed by each of the states in which we operate. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability 30standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.Reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which could negatively impact our business. The FERC can now impose penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards.In addition to direct regulation by the FERC and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, the independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. In addition, the RTOs may direct our transmission owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet the reliability requirements of the RTO or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the RTO tariffs.We Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets That We Do Not Own or Control to Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted, Including Our Own Transmission, or Not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our Ability to Sell and Deliver Power May Be HinderedWe depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. In addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. If we are unable to hedge or recover for such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected.Demand for electricity within our Utilities service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures.The FERC requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open access, non discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently.Disruptions in Our Fuel Supplies or Changes in Our Fuel Needs Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Generation Facilities or Impact Financial ResultsWe purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Operation of our coal fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. We have long term contracts in place for a majority of our coal and coal transportation needs. We may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Temperature Variations as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or Above Our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect Our Energy MarginsWeather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period.Customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. A significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the 31wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to Regional and General Economic Cycles and also Related to Heavy Manufacturing Industries such as Automotive and SteelOur business follows economic cycles. Economic conditions are a determinant of the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. The regional economy in which our Utilities operate is influenced by conditions in automotive, steel and other heavy industries and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. Additionally, the primary market areas of our Competitive Energy Services segment overlap, to a large degree, with our Utilities territories and hence its revenues are impacted by the same economic conditions.Increases in Customer Electric Rates and Economic Uncertainty May Lead to a Greater Amount of Uncollectible Customer AccountsOur operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We May Recognize Impairments of Recorded Goodwill or of Some of Our Long Lived Assets, Which Would Result in Write Offs of the Impaired Amounts Goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. In addition, one or more of our long lived assets could become impaired. The actual timing and amounts of any impairments in future years would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors.We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing RequirementsWe must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments.Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and LiquidityWe continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. We expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased.Our Results May be Adversely Affected by the Volatility in Pension and OPEB Expenses.Effective in 2011, FirstEnergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses of its pension and OPEB plans. This change will result in the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses, without deferral, in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, may result in greater volatility in pension and OPEB expenses and may materially impact our results of operations under GAAP. For additional information, see Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Security Breaches, Including Cyber Security Breaches, and Other Disruptions Could Compromise Critical and Proprietary Information and Expose Us to Liability, Which Would Cause our Business and Reputation to Suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. Despite security measures we have employed with respect to this information, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and regulatory penalties. It could also disrupt our business operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.32Acts of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our BusinessThe possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted Budget, Schedule or Scope ParametersOur business plan calls for extensive capital investments. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. We engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and or obtain the required construction related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects.Changes in Technology May Significantly Affect Our Generation Business by Making Our Generating Facilities Less CompetitiveWe primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for Our Business in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Those AcquisitionsAsset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition.Ability of Certain FirstEnergy Companies to Meet Their Obligations to or on behalf of Other FirstEnergy Companies or their Affiliates Certain of the FirstEnergy companies have obligations to other FirstEnergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. If one FirstEnergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other FirstEnergy entities could incur losses. Their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting FirstEnergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. Our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall FirstEnergy exposures. Some FirstEnergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. Also, some companies affiliated with FirstEnergy also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other FirstEnergy affiliates under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. Any failure to perform under such a guarantee by the affiliated FirstEnergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the FirstEnergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both FirstEnergy companies or their affiliates.Energy Companies are Subject to Adverse Publicity Which Make Them Vulnerable to Negative Regulatory and Legislative OutcomesEnergy companies, including FirstEnergys utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. Adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and or coal fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes.Our Merger with AE May Not Achieve Its Intended Results.We entered into the merger agreement with AE with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to the regulated business and the unregulated competitive business. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business and information systems of Allegheny are integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by us and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and prospects. See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant and Subsidiaries for additional information.33Risks Associated With RegulationComplex and Changing Government Regulations, Including Those Associated With Rates Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of OperationsWe are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not be set to recover its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. For example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner.Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry, Including a Reversal of, Discontinuance of, or Impediment to the Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets, Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of OperationsAs a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the United States, including the states in which we do business. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business.Some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market based pricing. In some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise impede market restructuring or even re regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to re regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued, restructured or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.The FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or re regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re regulate our business or the industry.The Prospect of Rising Rates Could Prompt Legislative or Regulatory Action to Restrict or Control Such Rate Increases. This In Turn Could Create Uncertainty Affecting Planning, Costs and Results of Operations and May Adversely Affect the Utilities Ability to Recover Their Costs, Maintain Adequate Liquidity and Address Capital RequirementsIncreases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. Such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. Such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks.Our Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies Continued Authorization to Sell Power at Market Based RatesThe FERC granted certain subsidiaries authority to sell electricity at market based rates. These orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements. The FERCs orders that grant this market based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to the orders granting the generating companies market based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the FERCs standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market based rates.There Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in RTOsRTO rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission 34constraints and attendant congestion costs. The prices in day ahead and real time energy markets and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. To the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. In addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our internal planning process. As a member of an RTO, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that RTOs market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members.Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO developments may have.Energy Conservation and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact Our Financial ResultsA number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and or incentives to reduce energy consumption. Conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. To the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. We currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery timeframe in the states we operate. In New Jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the SBC. Currently only Ohio has provisions for recovery of lost revenues. In our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Our results could be affected if we are unable to increase our customers participation in our energy efficiency programs. We are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations.Our Business and Activities are Subject to Extensive Environmental Requirements and Could be Adversely Affected by such RequirementsWe plan to retire nine older coal fired generating plants by September 1, 2012, as a result of a comprehensive review of FirstEnergys coal fired generating facilities in light of the MATS rules that were recently finalized and other environmental requirements. We may be forced to shut down other facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. The EPA is Conducting NSR Investigations at a Number of Generating Plants that We Currently or Formerly Owned, the Results of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionWe may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of EPAs NSR programs . Under the CAA, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing facilities to the far more stringent NSR standards applicable to new facilities.The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. We are currently involved in litigation and EPA investigations concerning alleged violations of the NSR standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. We intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For a more complete discussion see Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG Emissions, Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and ProfitabilityOur operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emission monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover, new environmental laws or regulations or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or 35new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations.There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. There is a growing consensus in the United States and globally that GHG emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to GHG emissions (including CO2) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, including CO2, as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Until specific regulations are issued, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of certain environmental laws or initiatives including climate change policies, but potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce emissions of GHG.We Could be Exposed to Private Rights of Action Seeking Damages Under Various State and Federal Law TheoriesClaims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that CO2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and or state common law. As a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. While FirstEnergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations.Our Costs to Comply with Various Recently Adopted EPA Emission Regulations Could be Substantial and Result in Significant Changes to Our OperationsWe are required to comply with recently adopted emission regulations. The EPAs CAIR and CSAPR require reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases, ultimately capping SO2 and NOx emissions in affected states. In July 2011, the EPA finalized the CSAPR (which was stayed in December 2011 pending a decision on various legal challenges) to replace CAIR, which remains in effect until CSAPR becomes effective. Depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, MPs, FGCOs and AE Supplys future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergys operations may result. Additionally, on December 21, 2011, the EPA finalized the MATS to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals for electric generating units. The costs associated with MATS, and other environmental laws, is substantial and led to the Companys recent announcement to retire nine older coal fired generating units. Depending on how the CSPAR and MATS are ultimately implemented, FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with such regulations may be substantial and additional changes to FirstEnergys operations may result. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the above referenced EPA regulations.Various Federal and State Water Quality Regulations May Require Us to Make Material Capital ExpendituresThe EPA established performance standards under the Clean Water Act which requires the EPA to establish performance standards for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). In 2011, the EPA proposed new regulations under the Clean Water Act which generally require fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and calls for studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. FirstEnergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants cooling water intake system. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water 36quality regulations listed above.Compliance with any Coal Combustion Residual Regulations Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionWe are subject to various federal and state hazardous waste regulations. The EPA has requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste.The EPA asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry and has proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be issued could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. Compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Remediation of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned FacilitiesWe are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. Remediation activities associated with our former MGP operations are one source of such costs. We are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material.In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee.We Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other Regulated Substances at Some of Our FacilitiesWe have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us.Availability and Cost of Emission Allowances Could Negatively Impact Our Costs of OperationsAlthough recent court rulings and current conditions have reduced the immediate risk of a negative impact on our operating costs, the uncertainty around CAA programs and requirements continue to be a major concern. We are still required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our CostsIf federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. We are unable to predict what impact, if any, these changes may have on our financial condition or results of operations.The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining or Renewing the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRC37We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed.Potential NRC Regulation in Response to the Incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant Could Adversely Effect Our Business and Financial ConditionAs a result of the NRCs investigation of the incident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, potential exists for the NRC to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the United States, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. For example, as a follow up to the NRC near term Task Forces review and analysis of the Fukushima Daiichi accident, in January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. These reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. It is also possible that the NRC could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the Davis Besse relicensing proceeding. The impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect FirstEnergys financial condition or results of operations.The Physical Risks Associated with Climate Change May Impact Our Results of Operations and Cash FlowsPhysical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Utilities service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants.Future Changes in Accounting Standards May Affect Our Reported Financial ResultsThe SEC, FASB or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. The SEC announced a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact that the use of IFRS by U.S. public companies would have on the U.S. securities market and has identified several potential options to incorporate IFRS in the United States. The SEC expects to announce a more specific course of action in 2012. We continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS.Increases in Taxes and Fees May Adversely Effect Our Results of Operation, Financial Audit and Cash FlowDue to the revenue needs of the United States and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. We cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. If enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Risks Associated With Financing and Capital StructureDisruptions in the Capital and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business, Including the Availability and Cost of Short Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our Ability to Meet Long Term Commitments, Our Ability to Hedge Effectively Our Generation Portfolio, and the Competitiveness and Liquidity of Energy Markets; Each Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial ConditionWe rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. Our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time.Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash.The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which 38could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.Interest Rates and or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing Costs, Our Ability to Access Capital and Our Requirement to Post CollateralWe have near term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. Similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations.We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. Furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Guarantees and Other Assurances of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral.The Soundness of Financial Institutions or Counterparties Could Adversely Affect UsWe have exposure to many different domestic and foreign financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement. We also deposit cash balances in short term investments. Our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds reside. Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on Our Utility Subsidiaries Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely Affect Our Financial ConditionWe are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us.We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in What Amounts they May be PaidOur Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 39ITEM 2. PROPERTIESThe Ohio Companies, Penns, FGCOs and NGCs respective first mortgage indentures constitute direct first liens on substantially all of the respective physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as defined in the first mortgage indentures. See Notes 6, Leases, and 12, Capitalization of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning leases and financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Utilities, FGCOs and NGCs properties.FirstEnergy controls the following generation sources as of January 31, 2012, shown in the table below. Except for the leasehold interests, OVEC participation and wind power arrangements referenced in the footnotes to the table, substantially all FES competitive generating units are owned by NGC (nuclear) and FGCO (non nuclear); the regulated generating units are owned by JCP&L and MP.40 Competitive Plant (Location) Unit Total FES AE Supply Regulated Net Demonstrated Capacity (MW)Super critical Coal fired: Bruce Mansfield (Shippingport, PA) 1 830(1) 830 Bruce Mansfield (Shippingport, PA) 2 830(2) 830 Bruce Mansfield (Shippingport, PA) 3 830(3) 830 Harrison (Haywood, WV) 1 3 1,984 1,576 408Hatfields Ferry (Masontown, PA) 1 3 1,710 1,710 Pleasants (Willow Island, WV) 1 2 1,300 1,200 100W. H. Sammis (Stratton, OH) 6 7 1,200 1,200 Fort Martin (Maidsville, WV) 1 2 1,107 1,107Eastlake (Eastlake, OH)(4) 5 597 597 10,388 4,287 4,486 1,615Sub critical and Other Coal fired: W. H. Sammis (Stratton, OH) 1 5 1,020 1,020 Eastlake (Eastlake, OH)(4) 1 4 636 636 Bay Shore (Toledo, OH) 1 136 136 Bay Shore (Toledo, OH)(4) 2 4 495 495 Armstrong (Adrian, PA)(4) 1 2 356 356 Albright (Albright, WV)(4) 1 3 292 292Mitchell (Courtney, PA) 3 288 288 Lakeshore (Cleveland, OH)(4) 18 245 245 Ashtabula (Ashtabula, OH)(4) 5 244 244 Willow Island (Willow Island, WV)(4) 1 2 242 242Rivesville (Rivesville, WV)(4) 5 6 126 126R. Paul Smith (Williamsport, MD)(4) 3 4 116 116 R. E. Burger (Shadyside, OH) 3 94 94 OVEC (Cheshire, OH) (Madison, IN) 1 11 188(5) 110 67 11 4,478 2,980 827 671Nuclear: Beaver Valley (Shippingport, PA) 1 911 911 Beaver Valley (Shippingport, PA) 2 904(6) 904 Davis Besse (Oak Harbor, OH) 1 908 908 Perry (N. Perry Village, OH) 1 1,268(7) 1,268 3,991 3,991 Gas/Oil fired: AE Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 (Springdale, PA) 1 5 638 638 West Lorain (Lorain, OH) 1 6 545 545 AE Nos. 12 & 13 (Chambersburg, PA) 12 13 88 88 AE Nos. 8 & 9 (Gans, PA) 8 9 88 88 Mitchell (Courtney, PA) 2 82 82 Hunlock CT (Hunlock Creek, PA) 1 45 45 Buchanan (Oakwood, VA) 1 2 43(8) 43 Other 216 216 1,745 216 1,529 Pumped storage and Hydro: Bath County (Warm Springs, VA) 1 6 1,110(9) 660 450Seneca (Warren, PA) 1 3 451 451 Yards Creek (Blairstown Twp., NJ) 1 3 200(10) 200Lake Lynn (Lake Lynn, PA) 1 4 52(11) 52 Other 19 19 1,832 451 731 650Wind Power 376(12) 376 Total 22,810 12,301 7,573 2,93641(1) Includes FGCOs leasehold interest of 93.825% (779 MW) and CEIs leasehold interest of 6.175% (51 MW), which has been assigned to FGCO.(2) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 27.17% (226 MW) and 16.435% (136 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO.(3) Includes CEIs and TEs leasehold interests of 23.247% (193 MW) and 18.915% (157 MW), respectively, which have been assigned to FGCO.(4) During the first quarter of 2012, FirstEnergy announced that these coal fired plants will be retired by September 1, 2012, subject to review for reliability impacts by PJM.(5) Represents FGCOs 4.85% and AEs 3.5% entitlement based on their participation in OVEC.(6) Includes OEs leasehold interest of 16.65% (151 MW) from non affiliates.(7) Includes OEs leasehold interest of 8.11% (103 MW) from non affiliates.(8) Buchanan Energy is a subsidiary of AE Supply. CNX Gas Corporation and Buchanan Energy have equal ownership interests in Buchanan Generation, LLC. AE Supply operates and dispatches 100% of Buchanan Generation, LLCs 86 MWs.(9) Represents capacity entitlement through ownership of AGC.(10) Represents JCP&Ls 50% ownership interest.(11) AE Supply has a license for Lake Lynn through 2024.(12) Includes 167 MW from leased facilities and 209 MW under power purchase agreements.The above generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system consisting of elements having various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to 500 kV. The Utilities overhead and underground transmission lines aggregate 24,305 pole miles.The Utilities electric distribution systems include 254,899 miles of overhead pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street lighting circuits. They own substations with a total installed transformer capacity of approximately 140,158,000 kV amperes.All of FirstEnergys generation, transmission and distribution assets operate in PJM.FirstEnergys distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2011, consist of the following: DistributionLines(1) TransmissionLines(1) SubstationTransformerCapacity(2) kV AmperesOE62,238 461 7,763,000Penn13,419 52 1,425,000CEI33,252 8,938,000TE17,593 81 3,040,000JCP&L22,800 2,550 23,150,000Met Ed18,695 1,406 10,819,000Penelec27,131 2,909 15,234,000ATSI(3) 7,524 23,578,000WP20,026 4,419 14,077,000MP20,730 2,625 15,230,000PE19,015 2,126 11,033,000TrAIL(4) 152 5,871,000Total254,899 24,305 140,158,000(1) Pole miles(2) Top rating of in service power transformers only. Excludes grounding banks, station power transformers, and generator and customer owned transformers.(3) Represents transmission lines of 69kV and above located in the service areas of OE, Penn, CEI and TE.(4) Represents transmission lines at 500kV located in the service areas of MP, PE and WP. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSReference is made to Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of certain legal proceedings involving FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESignal Peak Mine SafetyDuring 2011, FirstEnergy, through its FEV wholly owned subsidiary, held a 50% interest in Global Mining Group, LLC, a joint venture owning Signal Peak, which is a company that constructed and operates the Bull Mountain Mine No. 1 (Mine), an underground coal mine near Roundup Montana. The operation of the Mine is subject to regulation by the MSHA under the Mine Act.42On October 18, 2011, FirstEnergy announced that Gunvor Group, Ltd. signed an agreement to purchase a one third interest in the Signal Peak coal mine in Montana. As a result of the sale, FirstEnergy, through its wholly owned subsidiary, FEV, currently has a 33 1/3% interest in Global Holding, a joint venture that owns Signal Peak.Information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is included in Exhibit 95 to this Annual Report on Form 10 K.PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESThe information required by Item 5 regarding FirstEnergys market information, including stock exchange listings and quarterly stock market prices, dividends and holders of common stock is included in Item 6.Information for FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec is not disclosed because they are wholly owned subsidiaries of FirstEnergy and there is no market for their common stock.Information regarding compensation plans for which shares of FirstEnergy common stock may be issued is incorporated herein by reference to FirstEnergys 2012 proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.The table below includes information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by FE of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period October November December Fourth QuarterTotal Number of Shares Purchased(1) 112,225 167,674 712,539 992,438Average Price Paid per Share $44.36 $44.32 $44.19 $44.23Total Number of Shares Purchased As Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) Share amounts reflect purchases on the open market to satisfy FirstEnergys obligations to deliver common stock for some or all of the following: 2007 Incentive Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, Savings Plan, Director Compensation, Allegheny Energy, Inc. 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan, Allegheny Energy, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, Allegheny Energy, Inc, Non Employee Director Stock Plan, Allegheny Energy, Inc, Amended and Restated Revised Plan for Deferral of Compensation of Directors, and Stock Investment Plan. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAFor the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010(1) 2009(1) 2008(1) 2007(1) (In millions, except per share amounts)Revenues $16,258 $13,339 $12,973 $13,627 $12,802Earnings Available to FirstEnergy Corp.(2) $885 $742 $872 $623 $1,489Earnings per Share of Common Stock:(2) Basic $2.22 $2.44 $2.87 $2.05 $4.86Diluted $2.21 $2.42 $2.85 $2.03 $4.80Weighted Average Shares Outstanding: Basic 399 304 304 304 306Diluted 401 305 306 307 310Dividends Declared per Share of Common Stock(3) $2.20 $2.20 $2.20 $2.20 $2.05Total Assets(4) $47,326 $35,531 $35,054 $34,206 $32,394Capitalization as of December 31: Total Equity(5) $13,299 $8,952 $9,014 $8,748 $9,129Long Term Debt and Other Long Term Obligations 15,716 12,579 12,008 9,100 8,869Total Capitalization(5) $29,015 $21,531 $21,022 $17,848 $17,998(1) Reflects the retrospective change in recognizing pensions and OPEB costs.(2) The retrospective change in accounting for pensions and OPEB costs decreased Earnings Available to FirstEnergy Corp and Earnings Per Share (basic; diluted) as follows: 2010 $42 million ($0.14; $0.15 per share), 2009 $134 million ($0.44; $0.44 per share) and 2008 $719 43million ($2.36; $2.35 per share); and increased Earnings Available to FirstEnergy Corp. and Earnings Per Share (basic; diluted) in 2007 by $180 million ($0.59; $0.58 per share).(3) Dividends declared in 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 include four quarterly dividends of $0.55 per share. Dividends declared in 2007 include three quarterly payments of $0.50 per share in 2007 and one quarterly payment of $0.55 per share in 2008.(4) The retrospective change in accounting for pensions and OPEB costs increased Total Assets as of December 31 as follows: 2010 $726 million, 2009 $750 million, 2008 $685 million and 2007 $83 million.(5) The retrospective change in accounting for pensions and OPEB costs increased Total Equity as of December 31 as follows: 2010 $439 million, 2009 $457 million, 2008 $433 million and 2007 $122 million.PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCKThe common stock of FirstEnergy Corp. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FE and is traded on other registered exchanges. 2011 2010 High Low High LowFirst Quarter$40.80 $36.11 $47.09 $38.31Second Quarter$45.80 $36.50 $39.96 $33.57Third Quarter$46.51 $38.77 $39.06 $34.51Fourth Quarter$46.10 $41.55 $40.12 $35.00Yearly$46.51 $36.11 $47.09 $33.57Prices are from http://finance.yahoo.com.SHAREHOLDER RETURNThe following graph shows the total cumulative return from a $100 investment on December 31, 2006 in FirstEnergys common stock compared with the total cumulative returns of EEIs Index of Investor Owned Electric Utility Companies and the S&P 500.HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCKThere were 115,120 and 114,808 holders of 418,216,437 shares of FirstEnergys common stock as of December 31, 2011 and January 31, 2012, respectively. Information regarding retained earnings available for payment of cash dividends is given in Note 12, Capitalization of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURENone.44ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF REGISTRANT AND SUBSIDIARIESForward Looking Statements: This Form 10 K includes forward looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.Actual results may differ materially due to: The speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry.The impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates.The status of the PATH project in light of PJMs direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures.Business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM.Economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins.Changes in markets for energy services.Changing energy and commodity market prices and availability.Financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs.The continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs.Operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated.Other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPAs MATS rules.The uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with litigation, including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units).The uncertainty associated with the companys plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJMs review of the companys plans. Adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant).Issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis Besse.Adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders.The continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity.Replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged.The ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates.Changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates.The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals.FirstEnergys ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins.The ability to experience growth in the distribution business.The changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated.The impact of changes to material accounting policies.The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs of financings and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees.The continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business.Issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and AE and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations 45including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies .The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors.Dividends declared from time to time on FEs common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FEs Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information regarding risks that may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.46FIRSTENERGY CORP.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OFFINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOVERVIEWEarnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. in 2011 were $885 million, or $2.22 per basic share of common stock ($2.21 diluted), compared with $742 million, or $2.44 per basic share of common stock ($2.42 diluted), in 2010 and $872 million, or $2.87 per basic share ($2.85 diluted), in 2009.Change in Earnings Per Basic Share From Prior Year 2011 2010 Earnings Per Basic Share Prior Year $2.44 $2.87Segment operating results(1) Regulated Distribution 0.05 0.04Competitive Energy Services (0.15) 0.10Regulated Independent Transmission (0.06) 0.12Non core asset sales/impairments 0.67 (0.37)Generating plant impairments 0.08 (0.78)Trust securities impairments 0.02 0.03Litigation resolution (0.07) 0.01Regulatory charges 0.03 0.45Mark to market adjustments Pension and OPEB actuarial assumptions (0.47) 0.30All other 0.02 0.35Organizational restructuring 2009 0.14Debt redemption premiums (0.01) 0.32Merger related costs (0.29) (0.16)Merger Accounting commodity contracts (0.26) Net merger accretion(1)(2)(3) 0.54 Income tax resolution / retiree drug subsidy (0.03) (0.57)Settlement of uncertain tax positions (0.05) (0.11)Depreciation (0.09) (0.02)Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized (0.14) 0.04Investment income (0.03) (0.19)Change in effective tax rate 0.04 (0.17)Other (0.02) 0.04Earnings Per Basic Share $2.22 $2.44(1)Excludes amounts that are shown separately(2)Includes dilutive effect of shares issued in connection with the Allegheny merger(3)Includes 10 months of Allegheny results in 2011MergerOn February 25, 2011, the merger between FirstEnergy and AE closed. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger between FirstEnergy, Merger Sub and AE, Merger Sub merged with and into AE with AE continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. As part of the merger, AE shareholders received 0.667 of a share of FirstEnergy common stock for each AE share outstanding as of the merger completion date and all outstanding AE equity based employee compensation awards were converted into FirstEnergy equity based awards on the same basis.In connection with the merger, FirstEnergy recorded merger transaction costs of approximately $91 million ($73 million net of tax and $65 million ($47 million net of tax) during 2011 and 2010, respectively. These costs are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2011, $93 million of pre tax merger integration costs and $36 million of pre tax charges from merger settlements approved by regulatory agencies were recognized. Charges resulting from merger settlements are not expected to be material in future periods.FirstEnergy exceeded its 2011 merger benefits target. During 2011, FirstEnergy completed savings initiatives that allowed the 47company to capture pre tax annualized merger benefits of approximately $267 million compared to the annual target of $210 million.Operational MattersPJM RTO IntegrationOn June 1, 2011, ATSI successfully integrated into PJM. With this transition, all of FirstEnergys generation, transmission and distribution facilities are now in PJM. Transmission ExpansionOn May 19, 2011, TrAILs 500 kV transmission line, spanning more than 150 miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to northern Virginia, was completed and energized.Nuclear GenerationOn April 11, 2011, Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 2 returned to service following a March 7, 2011 shutdown for refueling and maintenance. During the outage, 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies were exchanged, safety inspections were conducted, and numerous maintenance and improvement projects were completed that we believe will result in continued safe and reliable operations. On June 7, 2011, the Perry Nuclear Power Plant returned to service following a scheduled shutdown for refueling and maintenance which began on April 18, 2011. During the outage, 248 of the 748 fuel assemblies were replaced and safety inspections were successfully conducted. Additionally, numerous preventative maintenance activities and improvement projects were completed that we believe will result in continued safe and reliable operations, including replacement of several control rod blades, rewind of the generator, and routine work on more than 150 valves, pumps and motors. On October 2, 2011, FENOC completed the controlled shutdown of the Perry Plant due to the loss of a startup transformer. Subsequently, a spare replacement transformer from Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station was transported to the Perry Plant for modification and installation. The new transformer was installed in 2011.During 2011, FENOC broke ground for new Emergency Operations Facilities at all three of its nuclear sites. Each of the 12,000 square foot facilities will house activities related to maintaining public health and safety during the unlikely event of an emergency at the plant and allow for improved coordination between the plant, state and local emergency management agencies. On October 1, 2011, the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station began a scheduled outage for replacement of its reactor vessel head and other scheduled maintenance. On October 10, 2011, following opening of the building for installation of the new reactor head, a sub surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the shield building. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the shield building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub surface hairline cracks in most of the buildings architectural elements. FENOCs investigation also identified other indications of cracking. Included among them were sub surface hairline cracks in the upper portion of the shield building (above 780 feet of elevation) and in the vicinity of the main steam line penetrations. A team of industry recognized structural concrete experts and Davis Besse engineers have determined these conditions do not affect the facilitys structural integrity or safety. On February 27, 2012, FENOC sent a root cause evaluation report to the NRC. On December 6, 2011, the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station returned to service. The new reactor vessel head features control rod nozzles made of an enhanced material and further promotes safe and reliable operation of the plant.Coal and Gas Fired GenerationOn July 28, 2011, FirstEnergy completed the sale of the Fremont Energy Center to American Municipal Power, Inc. for $510 million based on 685 MW of output. The purchase price can be incrementally increased, not to exceed an additional $16 million, to reflect additional transmission export capacity up to 707 MW.On October 18, 2011, FirstEnergy sold its Richland (432 MW) and Stryker (18 MW) Peaking Facilities for approximately $80 million. The proceeds from the sale of these non core assets reduced FirstEnergys net debt position. On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that its unregulated generation subsidiaries will retire six older coal fired plants located in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland. On February 8, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that MP will retire three older coal fired plants located in West Virginia. All of these generating plants will be closed by September 1, 2012. The decision to close the plants is the result of a comprehensive review of FirstEnergys coal fired generating facilities in light of the MATS rules that were recently finalized and other environmental regulations. These closures are subject to review for reliability impacts by PJM. In addition, MP will make a filing with the WVPSC to provide them with information regarding the retirement of its plants. As a result of this decision, impairment charges associated with these assets were recognized by FirstEnergy, aggregating approximately $334 million ($207 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011, including approximately $243 million ($152 million after tax) which is applicable to FES. See Note 11, Impairment of Long lived Assets, for further information on the retirement of these plants.48The total capacity of the competitive plants that will be retired is approximately 2,700 MW and the total capacity of the three regulated plants that will be retired is approximately 660 MW. Recently, these plants served mostly as peaking or intermediate facilities, generating, on average, approximately 10 percent of the electricity produced by FirstEnergys generation subsidiaries over the past three years.On February 24, 2012, PJM notified FirstEnergy of its preliminary analysis of the reliability impacts that may result from closure of the older competitive coal fired generating units. PJMs preliminary analysis indicated that there would be significant reliability concerns that will need to be addressed. FirstEnergy intends to continue to actively engage in discussions with PJM regarding this notification, including the possible continued operation of certain plants. Signal PeakOn October 18, 2011, FirstEnergy announced that Gunvor Group, Ltd. purchased a one third interest in Global Holding, a joint venture that owns the Signal Peak coal mine in Montana and the related Global Rail coal transportation operations. The sale strengthened FirstEnergys balance sheet in the following ways:Proceeds of $257.5 million reduced FirstEnergys net debt position;De consolidation of Signal Peak resulted in the reduction of indebtedness by $360 million and an increase to equity of $50 million on FirstEnergys Consolidated Balance Sheet; andThe gain on sale and revaluation of FirstEnergys remaining ownership stake increased equity by an additional $370 million.Following the sale, FirstEnergy, through its wholly owned subsidiary, FEV, has a one third interest in Global Holding. FGCO has a long term coal supply agreement with Signal Peak for up to 10 million tons per year. FGCO has re evaluated its coal usage under that agreement and has determined to resell its coal purchased from Signal Peak to an affiliate of Global Holding; provided, however, that such affiliate may require FGCO to repurchase up to 2 million tons annually from the existing underground mines, and, if Signal Peak develops surface mines, it could require FGCO to purchase an additional 2 million tons per year. FirstEnergy remains a 100% guarantor on Signal Peaks and Global Rails $350 million senior secured credit facility. See Guarantees and Other Assurances below. FirstEnergy Utilities Respond to Unprecedented StormsIn late August 2011, FirstEnergy experienced unprecedented damage in its service territory as a result of Hurricane Irene. Approximately 1.1 million customers were affected by outages in areas served by JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec and PE. Approximately 5,000 FirstEnergy employees and 2,800 contractors, including utility line workers from other utilities, assisted with the restoration work. The cost of the storm totaled approximately $89 million, of which $4 million reduced pre tax income in 2011 and $85 million was capitalized or deferred for future recovery from customers.On October 29, 2011, FirstEnergy was affected by a snowstorm that paralyzed much of the East Coast, including our eastern service areas. Approximately 820,000 customers of JCP&L, Met Ed, PE, MP, Penelec and WP were affected by the storm that brought down more than 800 poles and approximately 10,000 spans of wire. More than 9,600 employees, contractors and other utilities crews helped in the restoration. The pre tax total cost of the storm was approximately $125 million, of which $6 million reduced pre tax income in 2011 and $119 million was capitalized or deferred for future recovery from customers. Financial MattersDuring 2011, FirstEnergy redeemed or repurchased approximately $520.4 million principal amount of PCRBs, as summarized in the following table. Approximately $28.5 million of FGCO FMBs and $98.9 million of NGC FMBs associated with the PCRBs were returned for cancellation by the associated LOC providers. SubsidiariesAmount (In millions) AE Supply$53.0(1) FGCO$198.2(2) NGC$213.5(2) MP$70.2(1) (1) Includes $14.4 million of PCRBs redeemed for which MP and AE Supply are co obligors. (2) Subject to market conditions, these PCRBs are being held for future remarketing. On May 4, 2011, AE terminated its $250 million credit facility due to other available funding sources following completion of the merger with FirstEnergy.On June 17, 2011, FirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries entered into two 5 year revolving credit facilities with a total borrowing capacity of $4.5 billion. These facilities consist of a $2 billion revolving credit facility for FirstEnergy and its regulated utility subsidiaries 49and a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility for FES and AE Supply. Prior separate facilities ($2.75 billion at FirstEnergy, $1 billion at AE Supply, $110 million at MP, $150 million at PE and $200 million at WP) were terminated.During the third quarter of 2011, FirstEnergy received approximately $130 million from assigning a substantially below market, long term fossil fuel contract to a third party. As a result, FirstEnergy entered into a new long term contract with another supplier for replacement fuel based on current market prices. The new contract runs for nine years, which is the remaining term of the assigned contract. The transaction reduced fuel costs during the quarter by approximately $123 million.TrAILs primary investment, the Trans Allegheny Interstate Line (a 500 kV transmission project that extends from Southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to Northern Virginia), was completed in May 2011.On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced a change to its method for accounting for pensions and OPEB effective in 2011 (see Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We also disclosed that we made a $600 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan earlier that month.Regulatory Matters Met Ed and Penelec Transition to Competitive MarketsThe Pennsylvania Companies began the move to competitive markets with the expiration of the rate caps on Met Eds and Penelecs retail generation rates on December 31, 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed and Penelec obtained their power supply from the competitive wholesale market and fully recover their generation costs through retail rates. The Ohio Companies, Penn, WP and JCP&L previously transitioned to competitive generation markets.Marginal transmission loss recoveryOn March 3, 2010, the PPUC issued an order denying Met Ed and Penelec the ability to recover marginal transmission losses through the transmission service charge riders in their respective tariffs which applies to the periods including June 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. Subsequently, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth Court) appealing the PPUCs order. On June 14, 2011, the Commonwealth Court affirmed the PPUCs decision that marginal transmission losses are not recoverable as transmission costs. On July 13, 2011, Met Ed and Penelec filed a federal complaint with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and on the following day, filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Met Ed and Penelec believe the Commonwealth Courts decision contradicts federal law and is inconsistent with prior PPUC and court decisions and therefore expect to fully recover the related regulatory assets ($189 million for Met Ed and $65 million for Penelec). In January 2011 and continuing for 29 months, pursuant to a related PPUC order, Met Ed and Penelec began crediting customers for the amounts at issue pending the outcome of court appeals. Ohio Energy Efficiency and Peak Demand Reduction Portfolio PlanOn March 23, 2011, the PUCO approved the three year Energy Efficiency and Demand Reduction portfolio plan for the Ohio Companies. The Ohio Companies plan was developed to comply with the Energy Efficiency mandate in Ohios SB 221, passed in 2008. This law requires that utilities in Ohio reduce energy usage by 22.2 percent by 2025 and peak demand by 7.75 percent by 2018, develop a portfolio plan, and meet annual benchmarks to measure progress. NYSEG RulingOn July 11, 2011, FirstEnergy was found to be a potentially responsible party under CERCLA indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean up costs at certain legacy MGP sites in New York. As a result, FirstEnergy recognized additional expense of $29 million during the second quarter of 2011.West Virginia Fuel, Purchased Power Cost Decision On December 30, 2011, MP and PE announced that the WVPSC issued an order regarding the companies adjustment of fuel and purchased power costs. The WVPSCs order approved a settlement agreement between the companies, the Consumer Advocate Division, the Staff of the WVPSC and the West Virginia Energy Users Group. In the approved settlement, parties have agreed that the companies will recover an additional $19.6 million in 2012, an approximate 1.7 percent increase, primarily reflecting rising coal prices over the past two years, with certain additional amounts to be recovered over time with a carrying charge.FIRSTENERGYS BUSINESSWith the completion of the AE merger in the first quarter of 2011, FirstEnergy reorganized its management structure, which resulted in changes to its operating segments to be consistent with the manner in which management views the business. The new structure supports the combined companys primary operations distribution, transmission, generation and the marketing and sale of its products. The external segment reporting is consistent with the internal financial reporting used by FirstEnergys chief executive 50officer (its chief operating decision maker) to regularly assess the performance of the business and allocate resources. FirstEnergy now has three reportable operating segments Regulated Distribution, Regulated Independent Transmission and Competitive Energy Services.Prior to the change in composition of business segments, FirstEnergys business was comprised of two reportable operating segments. The Energy Delivery Services segment was comprised of FirstEnergys then eight existing utility operating companies that transmit and distribute electricity to customers and purchase power to serve their POLR and default service requirements. The Competitive Energy Services segment was comprised of FES, which supplies electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements. The Other/Corporate amounts consisted of corporate items and other businesses that were below the quantifiable threshold for separate disclosure. Disclosures for FirstEnergys operating segments for 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the revised presentation.The changes in FirstEnergys reportable segments during 2011 consisted primarily of the following:Energy Delivery Services was renamed Regulated Distribution and the operations of MP, PE and WP, which were acquired as part of the merger with AE, and certain regulatory asset recovery mechanisms formerly included in the Other/Corporate segment, were placed into this segment.A new Regulated Independent Transmission segment was created consisting of ATSI, and the operations of TrAIL and FirstEnergys interest in PATH; TrAIL and PATH were acquired as part of the merger with AE. The transmission assets and operations of JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec, MP, PE and WP remained within the Regulated Distribution segment.AE Supply, an operator of generation facilities that was acquired as part of the merger with AE, was placed into the Competitive Energy Services segment with FES.Regulated Distribution distributes electricity through our ten utility distribution companies, serving approximately 6 million customers within 67,000 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York, and purchases power for its POLR, SOS and default service requirements in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This segment also includes the transmission operations of JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec, WP, MP and PE and the regulated electric generation facilities in West Virginia and New Jersey which MP and JCP&L, respectively, own or contractually control. Its results reflect the commodity costs of securing electric generation and the deferral and amortization of certain fuel costs.The service areas of our regulated distribution utilities are summarized below:Company Area Served Customers ServedOE Central and Northeastern Ohio 1,032,000Penn Western Pennsylvania 161,000CEI Northeastern Ohio 747,000TE Northwestern Ohio 309,000JCP&L Northern, Western and East Central New Jersey 1,099,000Met Ed Eastern Pennsylvania 553,000Penelec Western Pennsylvania 590,000WP Southwest, South Central and Northern Pennsylvania 718,000MP Northern, Central and Southeastern West Virginia 387,000PE Western Maryland and Eastern West Virginia 390,000 5,986,000Regulated Independent Transmission transmits electricity through transmission lines and its revenues are primarily derived from a formulaic rate that recovers costs and a return on investment for capital expenditures in connection with TrAIL, PATH and other projects, revenues from providing transmission services to electric energy providers and power marketers, and revenues from operating a portion of the FirstEnergy transmission system. Its results reflect the net transmission expenses related to the delivery of the respective generation loads. Competitive Energy Services supplies, through FES and AE Supply, electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements, including competitive retail sales to customers primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland and the provision of partial POLR and default service for some utilities in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland, including but not limited to the Utilities. This segment controls approximately 17,000 MWs of capacity (excluding approximately 2,700 MWs from unregulated plants expected to be closed by September 1, 2012) (see Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and also purchases electricity to meet sales obligations. The segments net income is primarily derived from electric generation sales less the related costs of electricity generation, including purchased power and net transmission (including congestion) and ancillary costs charged by PJM and MISO (prior to June 1, 2011) 51to deliver energy to the segments customers.Other/Corporate contains corporate items and other businesses that are below the quantifiable threshold for separate disclosure as a reportable segment. (See Note 19, Segment Information of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on FirstEnergys reportable operating segments.)STRATEGY AND OUTLOOKFirstEnergys vision is to be a leading regional energy provider, recognized for operational excellence, outstanding customer service and our commitment to safety; the choice for long term growth, investment value and financial strength; and a company driven by the leadership, skills, diversity and character of our employees. FirstEnergy has grown over the last 15 years through several strategic mergers and asset transactions. Our most recent merger with Allegheny was completed in February 2011, significantly increasing our customer base and generating capacity and accelerating our movement further into eastern competitive markets. Also during 2011, we completed the transition to competitive markets in Pennsylvania and moved our ATSI assets into PJM, so that we now operate within a single regional transmission system. FirstEnergy is uniquely positioned as the nations largest contiguous electric system, with complementary assets across our generation, transmission and distribution delivery operations. These assets are in a prime location of PJMs competitive markets. Our substantial regulated operations include 10 distribution utilities serving a balanced base of nearly 6 million customers across 5 states. We are also one of the largest owners of transmission assets in PJM with nearly 20,000 miles of high voltage lines, including two independent transmission companies with significant assets. Combined, our utilities and transmission operations provide financial stability with strong cash flow and dividend support to FirstEnergy. Our market focused business model integrates more than 17,000 MWs of competitive generation, excluding approximately 2,700 MWs from unregulated plants expected to be closed by September 1, 2012, and are subject to review by PJM for reliability impacts(see Note 16, Commitment, Guarantees and Contingencies, regarding PJMs review of the our plans), with a multi channel retail sales platform, providing a higher value for every MWH we generate. We primarily target customers in competitive markets close to our generation assets.We believe we are well positioned for upcoming environmental changes due to the considerable investments we have made in recent years to diversify our generation fleet and improve its environmental performance. As a result of the MATS rules recently finalized by the EPA, and other previously announced environmental regulations, FirstEnergy announced in early 2012 its intent to retire nine older coal fired power plants, totaling 3,349 MW, located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia by September 1, 2012. When the retired fossil plants are removed from our fleet, nearly 100% percent of our generation output will be from either low or non emitting facilities, including nuclear, hydro, natural gas and scrubbed coal units. This further positions our fleet to deliver superior value in the future. We continue to face challenges related to macro economic factors. These include slow economic recovery across portions of our service territory, which affect our distribution deliveries volumes to residential, commercial and industrial customers, and depressed natural gas and wholesale electricity prices, which affect revenues from our competitive retail business and generation fleet. However, we believe we are one of the better positioned companies in our industry to benefit from eventual increases in energy and capacity prices as economic conditions improve.Financial OutlookWe intend to manage our operating and capital costs in order to achieve our financial goals and commitment to shareholders.Our liquidity position remains strong, with approximately $49 million of short term cash investments and over $4.3 billion of available liquidity as of January 31, 2012. Positive earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include: A full year contribution from the Allegheny merger;Higher competitive retail revenues as a result of continued growth in the business;Lower fuel and operation and maintenance expenses due to the retirement of certain coal fired plants in 2012 and from a continued focus on controlling our costs; andReduced interest expense as a result of debt redemptions during 2011. Negative earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include:Lower margins for our competitive energy service business from depressed market prices of power and lower capacity 52prices resulting from the PJM RPM auction beginning June 1, 2012;Higher gross receipts taxes associated with increased competitive retail sales in Pennsylvania; andIncreased depreciation expenses from capital projects that were placed in service during 2011.On January 5, 2012, we made a $600 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan bringing its funding level to 90% on an accumulated benefit obligation basis.Capital Expenditures OutlookOur capital expenditures in 2012 are estimated to be $2.1 billion (excluding nuclear fuel), a decrease of approximately $393 million from 2011. In addition to internal sources to fund capital requirements for 2012 and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Capital expenditures for our Regulated Distribution segment are forecast to decrease by $63 million in 2012 from $1.1 billion in 2011. The expected decrease primarily reflects the absence of storm restoration costs related to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. For our Regulated Independent Transmission segment, capital expenditures are expected to decrease to $105 million in 2012 from $190 million in 2011. The decrease reflects the completion of TrAILs 500 kV transmission line in 2011. Expenditures for Ohio and Pennsylvania energy efficiency and advanced metering initiatives are expected to be primarily recovered from distribution customers and federal stimulus funding. Other capital investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure are planned to satisfy transmission capacity and reliability requirements, connect new load delivery and wholesale generation points, and achieve cost effective improvements in the reliability of our service. For our Competitive Energy Services segment, capital expenditures are expected to increase by $32 million to $803 million in 2012. The main drivers of the increase include steam generator replacement projects at Davis Besse and Beaver Valley Unit 2 and turbine rotor replacement projects at Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2. Other planned generation investments provide for maintenance of critical generation assets, delivering operational improvements to enhance reliability, supporting environmental compliance, and advancing our generation to market strategy. For 2013, we anticipate baseline capital expenditures of approximately $2.0 billion, which exclude any potential additional strategic opportunities, future mandated spending, energy efficiency or environmental spending relating to MATS. Planned capital initiatives are intended to promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Environmental OutlookWe continually strive to enhance environmental protection and remain good stewards of our natural resources. We devote significant resources to environmental compliance efforts, and our employees share a commitment to, and accountability for, environmental performance. Our corporate focus on continuous improvement is integral to our environmental programs. We have spent more than $10 billion on environmental protection efforts since the initial passage of the Clean Air and Water Acts in the 1970s, and these investments demonstrate our continuing commitment to the environment. Recent investments of $3.0 billion at our Hatfield, Fort Martin and Sammis Plants, further reduced emissions of SO2 by over 95%, and NOx by at least 64% at these facilities. Since 1990, we have reduced emissions of NOx by more than 76%, SO2 by more than 86%, and mercury by approximately 56%.We have taken aggressive steps over the past two decades that have increased our generating capacity without adding to overall CO2 emissions. For example, since 1990, we have reconfigured our fleet by retiring 1,312 MWs and committing to retire in the near future 3,349 MWs of older, coal based generation and adding more than 1,800 MWs of non emitting capacity. Through these and other actions, we have increased our generating capacity by nearly 15% over the same period while avoiding over 370 million metric tons of CO2 emissions.We have taken a leadership role in pursuing new ventures to test and develop new technologies that may achieve additional reductions in CO2 emissions. These include:Sales of over 1 million MWH per year of wind generation. CO2 sequestration testing to gain a better understanding of the potential for geological storage of CO2. Supporting afforestation growing forests on non forested land and other efforts designed to remove CO2 from the environment.Reducing emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) by nearly 15 metric tons, resulting in an equivalent reduction of nearly 315,000 metric tons of CO2, through the EPAs SF6 Emissions Reduction Partnership for Electric Power Systems.53Supporting research to develop and evaluate cost effective sorbent materials for CO2 capture including work by EPRI and The University of Akron.We remain actively engaged in the federal and state debate over future environmental requirements and legislation. We actively work with policy makers and regulators to develop fair and reasonable requirements, with the goal of reducing emissions while minimizing the economic impact on our customers. Due to the significant uncertainty as to the final form or timing of a significant number of regulations and legislation at both the federal and state levels, we are unable to determine the potential impact and risks associated with all future environmental requirements. The CSAPR was stayed at the end of 2011 and the federal appeals court reviewing CSAPR has scheduled an April 13, 2012 hearing. The new MATS were finalized at the end of 2011, which resulted in our decision to retire nine older coal fired generation plants by September 1, 2012. Our current estimate is that it may cost approximately $1.3 $1.7 billion to bring our remaining units into compliance.We also have a long history of supporting research in distributed energy resources. Distributed energy resources include fuel cells, solar and wind systems or energy storage technologies located close to the customer or direct control of customer loads to provide alternatives or enhancements to the traditional electric power system. We are testing the worlds largest utility scale fuel cell system to determine its feasibility for augmenting generating capacity during summer peak use periods. Through a partnership with EPRI, the Cuyahoga Valley National Park, the Department of Defense and Case Western Reserve University, two solid oxide fuel cells were installed as part of a test program to explore the technology and the environmental benefits of distributed generation. We are also evaluating the impact of distributed energy storage on the distribution system through analysis and field demonstrations of advanced battery technologies. FirstEnergys EasyGreen load management program utilizes two way communication capability with customers non critical equipment, such as air conditioners in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, to help manage peak loading on the electric distribution system. We have also made an online interactive energy efficiency tool, Home Energy Analyzer, available to our customers to help achieve electricity use reduction goals.RISKS AND CHALLENGESIn executing our strategy, we face a number of industry and enterprise risks and challenges. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for a discussion of the risks and challenges faced by FirstEnergy and the Registrants.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe financial results discussed below include revenues and expenses from transactions among FirstEnergys business segments. A reconciliation of segment financial results is provided in Note 19, Segment Information of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described in Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, FirstEnergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and applied this change retrospectively to all periods presented. Earnings available to FirstEnergy by major business segment were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs 2010 2010 vs 2009 (In millions, except per share data)Earnings By Business Segment: Regulated Distribution$570 $553 $335 $17 $218Competitive Energy Services377 210 446 167 (236)Regulated Independent Transmission112 54 39 58 15Other and reconciling adjustments(1)(174) (75) 52 (99) (127)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp.$885 $742 $872 $143 $(130) Earnings Per Basic Share$2.22 $2.44 $2.87 $(0.22) $(0.43) Earnings Per Diluted Share$2.21 $2.42 $2.85 $(0.21) $(0.43)(1) Consists primarily of interest expense related to holding company debt, corporate support services revenues and expenses, noncontrolling interests and the elimination of intersegment transactions.Summary of Results of Operations 2011 Compared with 2010Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2011 and 2010 were as follows:542011 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,544 $5,573 $ $ $15,117Other 460 363 391 (140) 1,074Internal 1,237 (1,170) 67Total Revenues 10,004 7,173 391 (1,310) 16,258 Operating Expenses: Fuel 268 2,049 2,317Purchased power 4,672 1,491 (1,177) 4,986Other operating expenses 1,662 2,256 68 (77) 3,909Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 290 215 2 507Provision for depreciation 620 415 60 26 1,121Amortization of regulatory assets, net 323 6 329General taxes 724 200 33 21 978Impairment of long lived assets 87 315 11 413Total Operating Expenses 8,646 6,941 169 (1,196) 14,560 Operating Income 1,358 232 222 (114) 1,698 Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak 569 569Investment income 110 56 (52) 114Interest expense (573) (298) (46) (91) (1,008)Capitalized interest 10 40 2 18 70Total Other Income (Expense) (453) 367 (44) (125) (255) Income Before Income Taxes 905 599 178 (239) 1,443Income taxes 335 222 66 (49) 574Net Income 570 377 112 (190) 869Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16) (16)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $570 $377 $112 $(174) $885552010 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,271 $3,252 $ $ $12,523Other 300 323 242 (123) 742Internal 139 2,301 (2,366) 74Total Revenues 9,710 5,876 242 (2,489) 13,339 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,432 1,432Purchased power 5,273 1,724 (2,373) 4,624Other operating expenses 1,320 1,393 61 (78) 2,696Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 82 107 (2) 3 190Provision for depreciation 433 284 37 14 768Amortization of regulatory assets, net 712 10 722General taxes 605 124 30 17 776Impairment of long lived assets 388 388Total Operating Expenses 8,425 5,452 136 (2,417) 11,596 Operating Income 1,285 424 106 (72) 1,743 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36) 117Interest expense (500) (232) (22) (91) (845)Capitalized interest 4 95 2 64 165Total Other Expense (394) (86) (20) (63) (563) Income Before Income Taxes 891 338 86 (135) 1,180Income taxes 338 128 32 (36) 462Net Income 553 210 54 (99) 718Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24) (24)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $553 $210 $54 $(75) $74256Changes Between 2011 and 2010 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $273 $2,321 $ $ $2,594Other 160 40 149 (17) 332Internal (139) (1,064) 1,196 (7)Total Revenues 294 1,297 149 1,179 2,919 Operating Expenses: Fuel 268 617 885Purchased power (601) (233) 1,196 362Other operating expenses 342 863 7 1 1,213Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 208 108 4 (3) 317Provision for depreciation 187 131 23 12 353Amortization of regulatory assets, net (389) (4) (393)General taxes 119 76 3 4 202Impairment of long lived assets 87 (73) 11 25Total Operating Expenses 221 1,489 33 1,221 2,964 Operating Income 73 (192) 116 (42) (45) Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak 569 569Investment income 8 5 (16) (3)Interest expense (73) (66) (24) (163)Capitalized interest 6 (55) (46) (95)Total Other Income (Expense) (59) 453 (24) (62) 308 Income Before Income Taxes 14 261 92 (104) 263Income taxes (3) 94 34 (13) 112Net Income 17 167 58 (91) 151Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 8 8Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $17 $167 $58 $(99) $143Regulated Distribution 2011 Compared with 2010 Net income increased by $17 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to earnings from the Allegheny companies and the absence of a 2010 regulatory asset impairment associated with the Ohio companies ESP, partially offset by higher pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges and merger related costs. Lower generation revenues were offset with lower purchased power expenses. 57Revenues The increase in total revenues resulted from the following sources: For the year ended December 31 Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Pre merger companies: Distribution services $3,426 $3,629 $(203)Generation: Retail 3,266 4,457 (1,191)Wholesale 377 702 (325)Total generation sales 3,6435,159 (1,516)Transmission 262 596 (334)Other 187 326 (139)Total pre merger companies 7,518 9,710 (2,192)Allegheny companies 2,486 2,486Total Revenues $10,004 $9,710 $294The decrease in distribution service revenues for the pre merger companies (FirstEnergy as it was organized prior to the February 2011 merger with Allegheny) primarily reflects lower transition revenues due to the completion of transition cost recovery by CEI in December 2010, an NJBPU approved rate adjustment that became effective March 1, 2011, for all JCP&L customer classes, and the mid year suspension of the Ohio Companies recovery of deferred distribution costs. Partially offsetting the decreased distribution service revenues were increased rates in Met Eds and Penelecs transition riders and energy efficiency riders for the Pennsylvania and Ohio Companies. Distribution deliveries (excluding the Allegheny companies) increased by 0.1% in 2011 from 2010.The change in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: For the year ended December 31 Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) Pre merger companies: Residential 39,369 39,820 (1.1)%Commercial 32,610 33,096 (1.5)%Industrial 35,637 34,613 3.0 %Other 513 522 (1.7)%Total pre merger companies 108,129 108,051 0.1 %Allegheny companies 33,449 Total Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 141,578 108,051 31.0 %Lower deliveries to residential and commercial customers primarily reflected decreased weather related usage resulting from lower heating degree days (4%) and cooling degree days (7%) in 2011 compared to 2010. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased to steel and electrical equipment customers by 10% and 12%, respectively, partially offset by decreased deliveries to automotive customers of 2% in 2011 compared to 2010.58The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1,516 million decrease in generation revenues for the pre merger companies in 2011 compared to 2010:Source of Change in Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Retail: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,638)Change in prices 447 (1,191)Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (104)Change in prices (221) (325)Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $(1,516)The decrease in retail generation sales volume was primarily due to increased customer shopping in the service territories of the pre merger companies in 2011 compared to 2010. Total generation provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total MWH deliveries increased to 76% from 62% for the Ohio Companies, and to 52% from 10% in Met Eds, Penelecs and Penns service territories. The increase in retail prices is the result of higher generation charges in Pennsylvania due to the removal of generation rate caps for Met Ed and Penelec beginning on January 1, 2011, and the inclusion of transmission as part of the price of generation. Those impacts were partially offset by a decrease in the Ohio Companies generation rates beginning in June 2011 with the removal of certain transmission charges in connection with the integration into PJM.The decrease in wholesale generation revenues reflected lower RPM revenues for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $334 million primarily due to the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. This is partially offset by a new rider that became effective for the Ohio Companies in June 2011 that recovers network integration transmission service charges. Other revenues decreased by $139 million primarily due to the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES as of December 31, 2010, resulting in decreased capacity revenues. The Allegheny companies added $2,486 million to revenues in 2011, including $571 million for distribution services, $1,661 million from generation sales, $212 million of transmission revenues and $42 million of other revenues.Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased by $221 million in 2011. Excluding the Allegheny companies, total operating expenses decreased $1.9 billion due to the following:Purchased power costs were $1.7 billion lower in 2011 due primarily to a decrease in volumes required. Decreased power purchased from FES primarily reflected the increase in customer shopping described above, the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES at the end of 2010, and less Ohio POLR load served by FES beginning in June 2011. The increase in volumes purchased from non affiliates in 2011 is primarily due to Met Eds and Penelecs generation procurement plan effective January 1, 2011 and more Ohio POLR load served by non affiliates, partially offset by a decrease in RPM expenses in the PJM market. 59Source of Change in Purchased Power Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Pre merger companies: Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to decreased unit costs $(826)Change due to increased volumes 515 (311)Purchases from FES: Change due to increased unit costs 165Change due to decreased volumes (1,601) (1,436) Total pre merger companies (1,747)Purchases by Allegheny companies 1,146Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $(601)Other operating expenses decreased $37 million, primarily due to the following:Storm restoration maintenance and removal expenses increased $126 million primarily related to restoration associated with Hurricane Irene and an October 2011 East Coast snowstorm, primarily impacting the JCP&L and Met Ed service territories. Approximately $120 million of the total costs were deferred for future recovery from customers.Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased by $92 million.A provision for excess and obsolete material of $13 million was recognized in 2011 due to revised inventory practices adopted in conjunction with the Allegheny merger.The absence of a $7 million favorable JCP&L labor settlement that occurred in 2010.Transmission expenses decreased $285 million primarily due to reduced congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec in 2011.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges increased $132 million as a result of higher net actuarial losses.Depreciation expense increased $24 million primarily due to property additions since 2010. Net amortization of regulatory assets decreased $368 million primarily due to reduced net PJM transmission and transition cost recovery, the absence of a $35 million regulatory asset impairment recognized in 2010 associated with the filing of the Ohio Companies ESP on March 23, 2010, and the deferral of recoverable costs from Hurricane Irene and the 2011 East Coast snowstorm, partially offset by increased energy efficiency cost recovery. General Taxes increased $10 million due to the absence of a favorable property tax settlement recognized in 2010. Impairments of long lived assets totaling $87 million in 2011 resulted from the pending shutdown of three coal fired plants in West Virginia.60The acquisition of the Allegheny companies resulted in the inclusion of the following operating expenses in 2011:Operating Expenses Allegheny In Millions Purchased power $1,146Fuel 268Transmission 120Amortization of regulatory assets, net (21)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 76Other operating expenses 259General taxes 109Depreciation expense 163Total Operating Expenses $2,120Other Expense Other expense increased $59 million in 2011 due to interest expense on debt of the Allegheny companies partially offset by higher investment income on OEs and TEs nuclear decommissioning trusts and increased capitalized interest.Regulated Independent Transmission 2011 Compared with 2010 Net income increased by $58 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to earnings associated with TrAIL and PATH of $79 million, partially offset by decreased earnings for ATSI of $20 million.Revenues Total revenues increased by $149 million principally due to revenues from TrAIL and PATH, which were acquired as part of the merger with Allegheny, partially offset by a decrease in ATSI revenues due to the transition from MISO to PJM and the completion of vegetation management cost recovery in May 2011. Revenues by transmission asset owner are shown in the following table:Revenues by Transmission Asset Owner 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)ATSI $207 $242 $(35)TrAIL 170 170PATH 14 14Total Revenues $391 $242 $149Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased by $33 million principally due to the addition of TrAIL and PATH in 2011.Other Expense Other expense increased $24 million in 2011 due to additional interest expense associated with TrAIL.Competitive Energy Services 2011 Compared to 2010Net income increased by $166 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $569 million gain ($358 million net of tax) on the partial sale of FEVs interest in Signal Peak in 2011 and decreased impairments of long lived assets. Partially offsetting this was a decrease in sales margins of $193 million, a $66 million increase in interest expense and a $55 million decrease in capitalized interest compared to 2010. Revenues Total revenues increased $1.3 billion in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to an increase in direct and governmental aggregation sales and the inclusion of the Allegheny companies, partially offset by a decline in POLR and structured sales.61The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $3,785 $2,493 $1,292POLR and Structured Sales 944 2,589 (1,645)Wholesale 457 397 60Transmission 108 77 31RECs 67 74 (7)Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 (85)Other 173 161 12Allegheny Companies 1,639 1,639Total Revenues $7,173 $5,876 $1,297 Allegheny Companies Direct and Government Aggregation $84 POLR and Structured Sales 561 Wholesale 912 Transmission 88 Other (6) Total Revenues $1,639 MWH Sales by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase (Decrease) (In thousands)Direct 46,187 28,499 17,688Government Aggregation 17,722 12,796 4,926POLR and Structured Sales 15,340 50,358 (35,018)Wholesale 2,916 5,391 (2,475)Allegheny Companies 26,609 26,609Total Sales 108,774 97,044 11,730 Allegheny Companies Direct 1,390 POLR 7,974 Structured Sales 1,492 Wholesale 15,753 Total Sales 26,609 The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.3 billion resulted from the acquisition of new residential, commercial and industrial customers, as well as new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio and Illinois that provide generation to approximately 1.8 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2011 compared to approximately 1.5 million customers at the end of 2010. Increases in direct sales volume were partially offset by lower unit prices. The decrease in POLR and structured sales revenues of $1.6 billion was due to lower sales volumes to Met Ed, Penelec and the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales to non affiliates and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The decline in POLR sales reflects our focus on more profitable sales channels.Wholesale revenues increased $60 million due to higher wholesale prices partially offset by decreased volumes. The lower sales volumes were the result of decreased short term (net hourly positions) transactions in MISO, partially offset by increased short term transactions in PJM. In addition, capacity revenues earned by units that moved to PJM from MISO were partially offset by losses on financially settled sales contracts.62The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,034Change in prices (75) 959Governmental Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 319Change in prices 14 333Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $1,292Source of Change in POLR and Structured Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,800)Change in prices 155 $(1,645) Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(182)Change in prices 242 $60Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2011. Excluding the Allegheny companies, total operating expenses decreased $98 million compared to 2010, due to the following factors:Fuel costs decreased $177 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to cash received from assigning a substantially below market, long term fossil contract to a third party. In connection with its merger integration initiatives and risk management strategy, FirstEnergy continues to evaluate opportunities with respect to its commodity contracts. As a result of the assignment, FirstEnergy entered into a new long term contract with another supplier for replacement fuel based on current market prices. Excluding the assignment, fuel costs decreased $54 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to decreased volumes consumed ($115 million), partially offset by higher unit prices ($61 million). The decrease in fossil fuel expense reflects lower generation needed to satisfy sales requirements. Lower fossil fuel expenses were partially offset by a $22 million increase in nuclear fuel costs, which rose principally due to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2010 and 2011.Purchased power costs decreased $382 million as lower volumes ($649 million) were partially offset by higher unit prices ($267 million). The decrease in volume primarily relates to the expiration at the end of 2010 of a 1,300 MW third party contract associated with serving Met Ed and Penelec.Fossil operating costs increased $36 million due primarily to higher labor, contractor and material costs resulting from an increase in planned and unplanned outages, which were partially offset by reduced losses from the sale of excess coal.Nuclear operating costs increased $53 million primarily due to Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 refueling outages in 2011. While Davis Besse had a refueling outage in 2010 and an outage in 2011 to replace the reactor vessel head, the work performed on both outages was largely capital related.Transmission expenses increased $249 million due primarily to higher congestion, network and line loss expenses.Depreciation expense increased $20 million principally due to the completion of the Sammis projects at the end of 2010.General taxes increased $36 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.63Impairments of long lived assets decreased $85 million compared to last year. The 2011 charges are due to the pending shutdown of six unregulated, coal fired generating units; charges in 2010 related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units.Other operating expenses increased $152 million primarily due to a $54 million provision for excess and obsolete material relating to revised inventory practices adopted in connection with the Allegheny merger; a $64 million increase in pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges from higher net actuarial losses; a $10 million increase in other mark to market adjustments; an $18 million increase in agent fees due to rapid growth in FES retail business; and a $17 million increase in intercompany billings. The intercompany billings increased due to higher merger related costs, partially offset by lower leasehold costs from the Ohio Companies. The inclusion of the Allegheny companies operations added $1.6 billion to operating expenses as shown in the following table:Source of Operating Expense Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Allegheny Companies Fuel $794Purchased power 149Fossil operation and maintenance 152Transmission 198Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 44Other mark to market 4Depreciation 111General taxes 40Other 96Total operating expenses $1,588Other Expense Total other expense in 2011 was $453 million lower than 2010, primarily due to a $569 million gain on the partial sale of FEVs interest in Signal Peak and an increase in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income of $5 million, partially offset by a $121 million increase in net interest expense. The net interest expense increase in 2011 from 2010 resulted from lower capitalized interest due to the completion of major environmental projects in 2010.Other 2011 Compared to 2010Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in an $99 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease resulted primarily from decreased capitalized interest and increased depreciation expense resulting from the completed construction projects placed into service ($58 million), decreased investment income ($16 million), an asset impairment charge in the first quarter of 2011 ($11 million) and higher income taxes ($13 million).Summary of Results of Operations 2010 Compared with 2009Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2010 and 2009 were as follows:642010 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,271 $3,252 $ $ $12,523Other 300 323 242 (123) 742Internal 139 2,301 (2,366) 74Total Revenues 9,710 5,876 242 (2,489) 13,339 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,432 1,432Purchased power 5,273 1,724 (2,373) 4,624Other operating expenses 1,320 1,393 61 (78) 2,696Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 82 107 (2) 3 190Provision for depreciation 433 284 37 14 768Amortization of regulatory assets, net 712 10 722General taxes 605 124 30 17 776Impairment of long lived assets 388 388Total Operating Expenses 8,425 5,452 136 (2,417) 11,596 Operating Income 1,285 424 106 (72) 1,743 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36) 117Interest expense (500) (232) (22) (91) (845)Capitalized interest 4 95 2 64 165Total Other Expense (394) (86) (20) (63) (563) Income Before Income Taxes 891 338 86 (135) 1,180Income taxes 338 128 32 (36) 462Net Income 553 210 54 (99) 718Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24) (24)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $553 $210 $54 $(75) $742652009 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $10,585 $1,447 $ $ $12,032Other 331 481 223 (111) 924Internal 2,843 (2,826) 17Total Revenues 10,916 4,771 223 (2,937) 12,973 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826) 4,730Other operating expenses 1,257 1,332 56 (94) 2,551Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 166 151 2 2 321Provision for depreciation 426 279 37 15 757Amortization of regulatory assets, net 1,006 13 1,019General taxes 589 112 32 20 753Impairment of long lived assets 6 6Total Operating Expenses 10,004 4,029 140 (2,883) 11,290 Operating Income 912 742 83 (54) 1,683 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 141 121 (58) 204Interest expense (478) (174) (19) (307) (978)Capitalized interest 3 62 1 65 131Total Other Expense (334) 9 (18) (300) (643) Income Before Income Taxes 578 751 65 (354) 1,040Income taxes 243 305 26 (390) 184Net Income 335 446 39 36 856Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16) (16)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $335 $446 $39 $52 $87266Changes Between 2010 and 2009 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $(1,314) $1,805 $ $ $491Other (31) (158) 19 (12) (182)Internal 139 (542) 460 57Total Revenues (1,206) 1,105 19 448 366 Operating Expenses: Fuel 279 279Purchased power (1,287) 728 453 (106)Other operating expenses 63 61 5 16 145Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment (84) (44) (4) 1 (131)Provision for depreciation 7 5 (1) 11Amortization of regulatory assets, net (294) (3) (297)General taxes 16 12 (2) (3) 23Impairment of long lived assets 382 382Total Operating Expenses (1,579) 1,423 (4) 466 306 Operating Income 373 (318) 23 (18) 60 Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak Investment income (39) (70) 22 (87)Interest expense (22) (58) (3) 216 133Capitalized interest 1 33 1 (1) 34Total Other Expense (60) (95) (2) 237 80 Income Before Income Taxes 313 (413) 21 219 140Income taxes 95 (177) 6 354 278Net Income 218 (236) 15 (135) (138)Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (8) (8)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $218 $(236) $15 $(127) $(130)Regulated Distribution 2010 Compared with 2009Net income increased by $218 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment in 2009 and lower pensions and OPEB costs, partially offset by increases in other operating expenses. Lower generation revenues were offset by lower purchased power expenses.67Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Distribution services $3,629 $3,419 $210Generation: Retail 4,457 5,764 (1,307)Wholesale 702 752 (50)Total generation sales 5,159 6,516 (1,357)Transmission 596 805 (209)Other 326 176 150Total Revenues $9,710 $10,916 $(1,206)The increase in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table:Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries IncreaseResidential 5.9%Commercial 2.8%Industrial 8.4%Total Distribution MWH Deliveries 5.6%Higher deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflect increased weather related usage due to a 70% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily to major automotive customers (16%), refinery customers (7%) and steel customers (38%). The increase in distribution service revenues also reflects Met Eds, Penelecs and Penns recovery of the Pennsylvania EE&C as approved by the PPUC in March 2010 and the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio, partially offset by a reduction in the transition rate for CEI effective June 1, 2009.The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1.4 billion decrease in generation revenues in 2010 compared to 2009:Source of Change in Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Retail: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,435)Change in prices 128 (1,307)Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (64)Change in prices 14 (50)Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $(1,357)The decrease in retail generation sales volumes was primarily due to an increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. Total generation MWH provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total MWH deliveries by the Ohio Companies increased to 62% in 2010 from 17% in 2009. The decrease in wholesale generation revenues reflected lower RPM revenues for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $209 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies transmission tariff effective June 1, 2009; transmission costs are now a component of the cost of generation established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP.Other revenues increased by $150 million primarily due to Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES in 2010, resulting in increased capacity revenues. 68Operating Expenses Total operating expenses decreased by $1.6 billion due to the following:Purchased power costs were $1.3 billion lower in 2010, largely due to lower volume requirements. The decrease in volumes from non affiliates resulted principally from the termination of a third party supply contract for Met Ed and Penelec in January 2010 and from the increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. The decrease in purchases from FES also resulted from the increase in customer shopping in Ohio.An increase in purchased power unit costs from non affiliates in 2010 resulted from higher capacity prices in the PJM market for Met Ed and Penelec. A decrease in unit costs for purchases from FES was principally due to the lower weighted average unit price per MWH established under the May 2009 CBP auction for the Ohio Companies effective June 1, 2009.Source of Change in Purchased Power Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $709Change due to decreased volumes (1,489) (780)Purchases from FES: Change due to decreased unit costs (257)Change due to decreased volumes (250) (507)Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $(1,287)Transmission expenses increased $70 million primarily due to higher PJM network transmission expenses and congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by lower MISO network transmission expenses that are reflected in the generation rate established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Met Ed and Penelec defer or amortize the difference between revenues from their transmission rider and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect on current period earnings.Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009.Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $30 million due to lower payroll costs resulting from staffing reductions implemented in 2009, and restructuring expenses recognized in 2009.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges decreased by $84 million primarily resulting from lower net actuarial losses.Expenses for economic development commitments related to the Ohio Companies ESP were lower by $11 million in 2010 compared to 2009.Depreciation expense increased $7 million due to property additions since 2009.Amortization of regulatory assets decreased $294 million due primarily to the absence of the $216 million impairment of CEIs regulatory assets in 2009, reduced net MISO and PJM transmission cost amortization and reduced CTC amortization for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by increased amortization associated with the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio and a $35 million regulatory asset impairment in 2010 associated with the Ohio Companies ESP and the absence of CEIs purchased power cost deferrals that ended in early 2009.General taxes increased $16 million principally due to a benefit relating to Ohio MWH excise taxes that was recognized in 2009 and applicable to prior years.Other Expense Other expense increased $60 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower investment income on OEs and TEs nuclear decommissioning trusts ($37 million) and higher net interest expense associated with debt issuances during 2009 ($23 million).Regulated Independent Transmission 2010 Compared with 2009 Net income increased by $15 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increased revenues.69Revenues Total revenues increased by $19 million principally due to higher peak loads in 2010 compared to 2009.Operating Expenses Total operating expenses decreased by $4 million principally due to decreased property taxes and decreased pensions and OPEB costs primarily due to lower net actuarial losses.Other Expense Other expense increased $2 million in 2010 due to higher interest expense associated with higher average debt levels in 2010 compared to 2009. Competitive Energy Services 2010 Compared to 2009Net income decreased by $235 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $382 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins.Revenues Total revenues increased $1.1 billion in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to an increase in direct and governmental aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies, other wholesale sales and the reduced OVEC participation interest sale in 2010.The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $2,493 $779 $1,714POLR 2,589 2,863 (274)Wholesale 397 632 (235)Transmission 77 73 4RECs 74 17 57Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167)Other 161 155 6Total Revenues $5,876 $4,771 $1,105The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.7 billion resulted from increased revenue from the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to approximately 600,000 customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009.The decrease in POLR revenues of $274 million was due to lower sales volumes and lower unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to Met Ed and Penelec. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to Met Ed and Penelec resulted from FES supplying volumes previously supplied through a third party contract, and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009.Other wholesale revenues decreased $235 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM.70The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,080Change in prices (87) 993Government Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 707Change in prices 14 721Net Increase in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Revenues $1,714Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions)POLR: Effect of increase in sales volumes $38Change in prices (312) (274)Other Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (344)Change in prices 109 (235)Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $(509)Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased $1.4 billion in 2010 due to the following factors:Fuel costs increased $279 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased volumes consumed ($217 million) and higher unit prices ($62 million). The higher volumes consumed in 2010 were due to increased sales to direct and governmental aggregation customers, improved economic conditions and improved generating unit availability. The increase in unit prices was due primarily to increased coal transportation costs and to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010.Purchased power costs increased $728 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec.Fossil operating costs decreased $12 million due primarily to lower labor and professional and contractor costs, which were partially offset by reduced gains from the sale of emission allowances and excess coal.Nuclear operating costs decreased $21 million due primarily to lower labor, consulting and contractor costs partially offset by increased nuclear property insurance and employee benefit costs. The year 2010 had one less refueling outage and fewer extended outages than the same period of 2009.Transmission expenses increased $25 million due primarily to increased costs in MISO of $170 million from higher network, ancillary and congestion costs, partially offset by lower PJM transmission expenses of $145 million due to lower congestion costs.Depreciation expense increased $5 million principally due to property additions that were placed in service since 2009.General taxes increased $12 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.Other operating expenses increased $406 million primarily due to a $382 million impairment charge ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units. Expenses also increased for professional and contractor services, billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees, as FES continued to grow its retail business.71Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $95 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a $66 million decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income and a $25 million increase in net interest expense from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010.Other 2010 Compared to 2009Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in a $127 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease resulted primarily from increased income tax expense ($354 million) due in part to the absence of favorable tax settlements that occurred in 2009 ($200 million), partially offset by the absence of 2009 debt retirement costs in connection with the tender offer for holding company debt ($90 million), decreased interest expense associated with the debt retirement ($53 million) and increased investment income ($22 million).CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had $202 million of cash and cash equivalents available to fund investments, operations and capital expenditures. FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergys business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2012 and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short term borrowings. Long term cash needs may be met through issuances of debt and or equity securities. FirstEnergy expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long term capital markets. A material adverse change in operations, or in the availability of external financing sources, could impact FirstEnergys liquidity position and ability to fund its capital requirements. To mitigate risk, FirstEnergys business strategy stresses financial discipline and a strong focus on execution. Major elements include the expectation of: adequate cash from operations, opportunities for favorable long term earnings growth in the competitive generation markets, operational excellence, business plan execution, well positioned generation fleet, no speculative trading operations, appropriate long term commodity hedging positions, manageable capital expenditure program, adequately funded pension plan, minimal near term maturities of existing long term debt, commitment to a secure dividend and a successful merger integration.As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys net deficit in working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was principally due to currently payable long term debt, which, as of December 31, 2011, included the following:Currently Payable Long term Debt (In millions)Met Ed, Penelec, FGCO and NGC PCRBs supported by bank LOCs (1) $632AE Supply unsecured note 503FGCO and NGC unsecured PCRBs (1) 270WP unsecured note 80NGC collateralized lease obligation bonds 67Sinking fund requirements 52Other notes 17 $1,621(1) These PCRBs are classified as currently payable long term debt solely because the applicable Interest rate mode permits individual debt holders to put the respective debt back to the issuer prior to maturity.72Short Term BorrowingsFirstEnergy had no significant short term borrowings as of December 31, 2011, and short term borrowings of approximately $700 million as of December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys available liquidity as of January 31, 2012, was as follows: Company Type Maturity Commitment Available Liquidity (In millions)FirstEnergy(1) Revolving June 2016 $2,000 $1,395FES / AE Supply Revolving June 2016 2,500 2,498TrAIL Revolving Jan. 2013 450 450AGC Revolving Dec. 2013 50 Subtotal $5,000 $4,343 Cash 49 Total $5,000 $4,392(1) FE and the UtilitiesRevolving Credit FacilitiesFirstEnergy and FES / AE Supply FacilitiesFirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two five year syndicated revolving credit facilities with aggregate commitments of $4.5 billion (Facilities). An aggregate amount of $2 billion is available to be borrowed under a syndicated revolving credit facility (FirstEnergy Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower. The borrowers under the FirstEnergy Facility are FE, OE, Penn, CEI, TE, Met Ed, ATSI, JCP&L, MP, Penelec, PE and WP. An additional $2.5 billion is available to be borrowed by FES and AE Supply under a separate syndicated revolving credit facility (FES/AE Supply Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower.Commitments under each of the Facilities will be available until June 17, 2016, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the applicable borrowers, to up to two additional one year extensions. Generally, borrowings under each of the Facilities are available to each borrower separately and mature on the earlier of 364 days from the date of borrowing or the commitment termination date, as the same may be extended. Borrowings under each of the Facilities are subject to the usual and customary provisions for acceleration upon the occurrence of events of default, including a cross default for other indebtedness in excess of $100 million, as described further in Note 12, Capitalization.The following table summarizes the borrowing sub limits for each borrower under the Facilities, as well as the limitations on short term indebtedness applicable to each borrower under current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations as of December 31, 2011:73Borrower Revolving Credit Facility Sub Limit Regulatory and Other Short Term Debt Limitations (In millions) FE $2,000 (1) FES $1,500 (2) AE Supply $1,000 (2) OE $500 $500 CEI $500 $500 TE $500 $500 JCP&L $425 $411(3) Met Ed $300 $300(3) Penelec $300 $300(3) West Penn $200 $200(3) MP $150 $150(3) PE $150 $150(3) ATSI $100 $100 Penn $50 $33(3) (1) No limitations. (2) No limitation based upon blanket financing authorization from the FERC under existing open market tariffs. (3) Excluding amounts which may be borrowed under the regulated companies money pool. The entire amount of the FES/AE Supply Facility and $700 million of the FirstEnergy Facility, subject to each borrowers sub limit, is available for the issuance of LOCs expiring up to one year from the date of issuance. The stated amount of outstanding LOCs will count against total commitments available under each of the Facilities and against the applicable borrowers borrowing sub limit. Each of the Facilities contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65%, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt to total capitalization ratios (as defined under each of the Facilities) were as follows:Borrower FirstEnergy57.5%FES51.4%OE63.4%Penn42.8%CEI59.4%TE62.7%JCP&L43.6%Met Ed56.0%Penelec56.6%ATSI48.6%MP56.6%PE56.8%WP52.1%AE Supply38.5%As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy could issue additional debt of approximately $6.7 billion, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $3.6 billion, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by its revolving credit facility.The Facilities do not contain provisions that restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate payment of outstanding advances as a result of any change in credit ratings. Pricing is subject to pricing grids, whereby the borrowers cost of funds borrowed under the Facilities is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds.74AGC and TrAIL Revolving Credit FacilitiesFirstEnergy also has established $500 million of revolving credit facilities that are available to TrAIL ($450 million) and AGC ($50 million) until January 2013 and December 2013, respectively. Under the terms of its credit facility, outstanding debt of AGC may not exceed 65% of the sum of its debt and equity as of the last day of each calendar quarter. Outstanding debt for TrAIL may not exceed 65% of the sum of its debt and equity as of the last day of each calendar quarter through December 31, 2012. These provisions limit debt levels of these subsidiaries and also limit the net assets of each subsidiary that may be transferred to AE. As of December 31, 2011, the debt to total capitalization ratios for TrAIL and AGC (as defined under each of their credit facilities) were 48% and 51%, respectively.As of December 31, 2011, TrAIL could issue additional debt of approximately $222 million, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $341 million and AGC could issue additional debt of approximately $39 million, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $61 million, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by their credit facilities.FirstEnergy Money Pools FirstEnergys regulated companies also have the ability to borrow from each other and the holding company to meet their short term working capital requirements. A similar but separate arrangement exists among FirstEnergys unregulated companies. FESC administers these two money pools and tracks surplus funds of FirstEnergy and the respective regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from their respective pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings during 2011 was 0.44% per annum for the regulated companies money pool and 0.42% per annum for the unregulated companies money pool. Pollution Control Revenue BondsAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys currently payable long term debt included approximately $632 million (FES $558 million, Met Ed $29 million and Penelec $45 million) of variable interest rate PCRBs, the bondholders of which are entitled to the benefit of irrevocable direct pay bank LOCs. The interest rates on the PCRBs are reset daily or weekly. Bondholders can tender their PCRBs for mandatory purchase prior to maturity with the purchase price payable from remarketing proceeds or, if the PCRBs are not successfully remarketed, by drawings on the irrevocable direct pay LOCs. The subsidiary obligor is required to reimburse the applicable LOC bank for any such drawings or, if the LOC bank fails to honor its LOC for any reason, must itself pay the purchase price.The LOCs for FirstEnergy variable interest rate PCRBs were issued by the following banks as of December 31, 2011:LOC Bank Aggregate LOCAmount(1) LOC Termination Date Reimbursementsof LOC Draws Due (In millions) UBS $272 April 2014 April 2014CitiBank N.A. 165 June 2014 June 2014Wachovia Bank 153 March 2014 March 2014The Bank of Nova Scotia 49 April 2014 Multiple dates(2)Total $639 (1) Includes approximately $7 million of applicable interest coverage.(2) Shorter of 6 months or LOC termination date.During 2011, FirstEnergy redeemed or repurchased approximately $520.4 million principal amount of PCRBs, as summarized in the following table. Approximately $28.5 million of FGCO FMBs and $98.9 million of NGC FMBs associated with the PCRBs were returned for cancellation by the associated LOC providers. SubsidiariesAmount (In millions) AE Supply$53.0(1) FGCO$198.2(2) NGC$213.5(2) MP$70.2(1) (1) Includes $14.4 million of PCRBs redeemed for which MP and AE Supply are co obligors. (2) Subject to market conditions, these PCRBs are being held for future remarketing. 75Long Term Debt CapacityAs of December 31, 2011, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue approximately $2.7 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to $232 million and $20 million, respectively. As a result of the indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of approximately $376 million and $382 million, respectively, under provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31, 2011. In addition, based upon their respective FMB indentures, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of December 31, 2011, MP, PE and WP had the capability to issue approximately $1.1 billion of additional FMBs in the aggregate. These companies may be further limited by the financial covenants of the Facilities and subject to current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations. Based upon FGCOs net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indentures as of December 31, 2011, FGCO had the capability to issue $2.1 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. Based upon NGCs net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indenture as of December 31, 2011, NGC had the capability to issue $2.0 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. FirstEnergys access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the credit ratings of its securities. On March 21, 2011, S&P affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. On May 27, 2011, Fitch upgraded ratings for certain subsidiaries and revised the outlook to stable from negative for FirstEnergy and FES. On August 18, 2011, Moodys downgraded ratings for FES to Baa3 from Baa2 and revised FES outlook to stable. On January 18, 2012, Moodys upgraded ratings for TrAIL to A3 from Baa2. The following table displays FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt credit ratings as of February 24, 2012: Senior Secured Senior UnsecuredIssuer S&P Moodys Fitch S&P Moodys FitchFE BB+ Baa3 BBBFES BBB Baa3 BBBAE Supply BBB Baa3 BBB AGC BBB Baa3 BBBATSI BBB Baa1 A CEI BBB Baa1 BBB BBB Baa3 BBB JCP&L BBB Baa2 BBB+Met Ed BBB A3 A BBB Baa2 BBB+MP BBB+ Baa1 A BBB Baa3 BBB+OE BBB A3 BBB+ BBB Baa2 BBBPenelec BBB A3 BBB+ BBB Baa2 BBBPenn BBB+ A3 BBB+ PE BBB+ Baa1 A BBB Baa3 BBB+TE BBB Baa1 BBB TrAIL BBB A3 A WP BBB+ A3 A BBB Baa2 BBB+See Note 12, Capitalization of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on FirstEnergys and the Registrants long term debt and other long term obligations that were outstanding as of December 31, 2011.Changes in Cash PositionAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had $202 million of cash and cash equivalents compared to approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, FirstEnergy had approximately $79 million and $13 million, respectively, of restricted cash included in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.During 2011, FirstEnergy received $1.8 billion of cash dividends from its subsidiaries and paid $881 million in cash dividends to common shareholders, including $20 million paid in March by AE to its former shareholders.76Cash Flows From Operating ActivitiesFirstEnergys consolidated net cash from operating activities is provided primarily by its regulated distribution, regulated independent transmission and competitive energy services businesses (see Results of Operations above). Net cash provided from operating activities was $3.1 billion in 2011, $3.1 billion in 2010 and $2.5 billion in 2009, as summarized in the following table:Operating Cash Flows 2011 2010 2009 (In millions)Net income $869 $718 $856Non cash charges 2,424 2,343 2,095Pension trust contributions (372) (500)Working capital and other 142 15 14 $3,063 $3,076 $2,465The 2011 increase in non cash charges is primarily due to increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges from higher actuarial losses ($317 million), increased deferred taxes resulting from bonus depreciation ($348 million) and increased depreciation attributable to the acquired Allegheny companies ($353 million). These increases were partially offset by gains from the sale of assets, mostly due to the sale of Signal Peak ($543 million), and lower amortization of regulatory assets from reduced net PJM transmission cost and transition cost recovery ($393 million). The 2011 increase in cash flows from working capital and other is primarily due to decreased receivables from higher customer collections ($324 million) partially offset by the absence of interest rate swap activity transacted in 2010 ($129 million).Cash Flows From Financing ActivitiesIn 2011, cash used for financing activities was $2,924 million compared to $983 million in 2010. The following table summarizes security issuances (net of any discounts) and redemptions:Securities Issued or Redeemed 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) New Issues PCRBs $272 $740 $940Long term revolving credit 70 Senior secured notes 350 297FMBs 398Unsecured Notes 262 9 2,997 $604 $1,099 $4,632Redemptions PCRBs $792 $741 $884Long term revolving credit 495 Senior secured notes 460 141 217FMBs 15 32 1Unsecured notes 147 101 1,508 $1,909 $1,015 $2,610 Net repayment of short term borrowings $(700) $(378) $(1,246)Cash Flows From Investing ActivitiesCash used for investing activities in 2011 resulted from cash used for property additions, partially offset by the cash acquired in the Allegheny merger and proceeds from asset sales. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by business segment:77Summary of Cash FlowsProvided from (Used for) Investing Activities PropertyAdditions Investments Other Total (In millions) Sources (Uses) 2011 Regulated distribution $(1,060) $30 $(83) $(1,113)Competitive energy services (927) 545 3 (379)Regulated independent transmission (192) (3) (195)Cash received in Allegheny merger 590 590Other and reconciling adjustments (99) 223 17 141Total $(2,278) $1,388 $(66) $(956) 2010 Regulated distribution $(681) $96 $17 $(568)Competitive energy services (1,159) (43) (51) (1,253)Regulated independent transmission (64) (4) (68)Other and reconciling adjustments (59) (30) 30 (59)Total $(1,963) $23 $(8) $(1,948) 2009 Regulated distribution $(718) $39 $(45) $(724)Competitive energy services (1,412) (8) (19) (1,439)Regulated independent transmission (32) (1) (33)Other and reconciling adjustments (41) (27) 79 11Total $(2,203) $4 $14 $(2,185)Net cash used for investing activities in 2011 decreased by $992 million compared to 2010. The decrease was principally due to cash acquired in the Allegheny merger ($590 million) and an increase in proceeds from asset sales ($723 million), partially offset by increased property additions ($315 million).Our capital spending for 2012 is expected to be approximately $2.1 billion (excluding nuclear fuel). For 2013, we anticipate baseline capital expenditures of approximately $2.0 billion, which exclude any potential additional strategic opportunities, future mandated spending, energy efficiency or environmental spending relating to MATS. Planned capital initiatives are intended to promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Our capital investments for additional nuclear fuel are expected to be $280 million and $219 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively.CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSAs of December 31, 2011, our estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations that we consider firm obligations are as follows:Contractual Obligations Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter (In millions)Long term debt(1) $17,005 $1,605 $2,192 $2,688 $10,520Interest on long term debt(2) 12,071 975 1,804 1,548 7,744Operating leases(3) 3,147 258 492 598 1,799Fuel and purchased power(4) 32,877 3,598 5,589 4,616 19,074Capital expenditures 2,715 681 984 638 412Pension funding 1,030 231 799 Other(5) 263 28 105 47 83Total $69,108 $7,145 $11,397 $10,934 $39,632(1) Excludes unamortized discounts and premiums and fair value accounting adjustments.(2) Interest on variable rate debt based on rates as of December 31, 2011.(3) See Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4) Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements.(5) Includes amounts for capital leases (see Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and contingent tax liabilities (see Note 5, Taxes of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).78Excluded from the data shown above are estimates for the cash outlays stemming from power purchase contracts entered into by most of the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. The exact amounts will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, but based on numerous planning assumptions, management estimates an amount of $5.4 billion in 2012, $1.8 billion of which relates to contracts with FES.GUARANTEES AND OTHER ASSURANCESAs part of normal business activities, FirstEnergy enters into various agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries to provide financial or performance assurances to third parties. FirstEnergy guarantees energy and energy related payments of its subsidiaries involved in energy commodity activities principally to facilitate or hedge normal physical transactions involving electricity, gas, emission allowances and coal. FirstEnergy also provides credit support to various providers for the financing or refinancing by subsidiaries of costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. These agreements include provisions for parent guarantees, surety bonds and or LOCs to be issued by FirstEnergy on behalf of one or more of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain contracts may contain collateral provisions that are contingent upon either FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries credit ratings. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys maximum exposure to potential future payments under outstanding guarantees and other assurances approximated $3.7 billion, as summarized below:Guarantees and Other Assurances Maximum Exposure (In millions)FirstEnergy Guarantees on Behalf of its Subsidiaries Energy and Energy Related Contracts(1) $268LOC (long term debt) interest coverage(2) 5OVEC obligations 300Other(3) 301 874 Subsidiaries Guarantees Energy and Energy Related Contracts 141LOC (long term debt) interest coverage(2) 2FES guarantee of NGCs nuclear property insurance 79FES guarantee of FGCOs sale and leaseback obligations 2,286Other 12 2,520 Surety Bonds 151LOCs(4) 189 340Total Guarantees and Other Assurances $3,734(1) Issued for open ended terms, with a 10 day termination right by FirstEnergy.(2) Reflects the interest coverage portion of LOCs issued in support of floating rate PCRBs with various maturities. The principal amount of floating rate PCRBs of $632 million is reflected in currently payable long term debt on FirstEnergys consolidated balance sheets.(3) Includes guarantees of $95 million for nuclear decommissioning funding assurances, $161 million supporting OEs sale and leaseback arrangement, and $36 million for railcar leases.(4) Includes $36 million issued for various terms pursuant to capacity available under FirstEnergys revolving credit facility, $116 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Beaver Valley Unit 2 by OE and $37 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Perry by OE.Most of FirstEnergys surety bonds are backed by various indemnities common within the insurance industry. Surety bonds and related guarantees of $151 million provide additional assurance to outside parties that contractual and statutory obligations will be met in a number of areas including construction contracts, environmental commitments and various retail transactions. While the types of guarantees discussed above are normally parental commitments for the future payment of subsidiary obligations, subsequent to the occurrence of a senior unsecured credit rating downgrade to below S&Ps BBB and Moodys Baa3 and lower, or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of collateral or accelerated payments may be required of the subsidiary. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys exposure to additional credit contingent contractual obligations was $636 million, as shown below: 79Collateral Provisions FES AE Supply Utilities Total (In millions)Credit rating downgrade to below investment grade (1) $468 $8 $57 $533Material adverse event (2) 31 60 12 103Total $499 $68 $69 $636(1) Includes $205 million and $47 million that are also considered accelerations of payment or funding obligations for FES and the Utilities, respectively.(2) Includes $31 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES.Certain bilateral non affiliate contracts entered into by the Competitive Energy Services segment contain margining provisions that require posting of collateral. Based on FES and AE Supplys power portfolios exposure as of December 31, 2011, FES and AE Supply have posted collateral of $88 million and $1 million, respectively. Depending on the volume of forward contracts and future price movements, higher amounts for margining could be required. Not included in the preceding information is potential collateral arising from the PSAs between FES or AE Supply and affiliated utilities in the Regulated Distribution Segment. As of December 31, 2011, neither FES nor AE Supply had any collateral posted with their affiliates. In the event of a senior unsecured credit rating downgrade to below S&Ps BB or Moodys Ba3, FES and AE Supply would be required to post $49 million and $24 million, respectively.FES debt obligations are generally guaranteed by its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, and FES guarantees the debt obligations of each of FGCO and NGC. Accordingly, present and future holders of indebtedness of FES, FGCO and NGC would have claims against each of FES, FGCO and NGC, regardless of whether their primary obligor is FES, FGCO or NGC. Signal Peak and Global Rail are borrowers under a $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility due in October 2012. FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures, LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II, LLC, the entities that previously shared ownership in the borrowers with FEV, have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the facility. On October 18, 2011, FEV sold a portion of its ownership interest in Signal Peak and Global Rail (see Note 8, Variable Interest Entities). Following the sale, FirstEnergy, WMB Loan Ventures, LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II, LLC, together with Global Mining Group, LLC and Global Holding will continue to guarantee the borrowers obligations until either the facility is replaced with non recourse financing (no later than June 30, 2012) or replaced with appropriate recourse financing no earlier than September 4, 2012, that provides for separate guarantees from each owner in proportion with each equity owners percentage ownership in the joint venture. In addition, FEV, Global Mining Group, LLC and Global Holding, the entities that own direct and indirect equity interests in the borrowers, have pledged those interests to the lenders under the current facility as collateral.OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSFES and the Ohio Companies have obligations that are not included on their Consolidated Balance Sheets related to sale and leaseback arrangements involving the Bruce Mansfield Plant, Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2, which are satisfied through operating lease payments. The total present value of these sale and leaseback operating lease commitments, net of trust investments, was $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011. See Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on FirstEnergys and the Registrants leases.MARKET RISK INFORMATIONFirstEnergy uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskFirstEnergy is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Management Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. FirstEnergy uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FirstEnergy relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FirstEnergy uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 are summarized by year in the following table:80Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (211) (51) (32) (22) (316)Prices based on models (21) 8 31 18Total(3) $(232) $(51) $(32) $(22) $8 $31 $(298)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(301) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.FirstEnergy performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $13 million during the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskFirstEnergys exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities. As discussed in Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, FirstEnergys investments in capital trusts effectively reduce future lease obligations, also reducing interest rate risk.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $89 $100 $110 $76 $23 $2,008 $2,406 $2,456Average interest rate 8.8% 8.9% 9.0% 9.5% 10.3% 5.4% 6.0% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $751 $964 $866 $1,330 $891 $11,628 $16,430 $18,585Average interest rate 7.3% 5.9% 5.4% 4.7% 5.9% 6.2% 6.1% Variable rate $150 $585 $735 $735Average interest rate 1.8% 0.1% 0.4% Equity Price RiskFirstEnergy provides noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. FirstEnergy provides a portion of non contributory pre retirement basic life insurance for employees who are eligible to retire. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments, are also available upon retirement to certain employees, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy also has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability related benefits. The benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date or as significant triggering events occur. As of December 31, 2011, the FirstEnergy pension plan was invested in approximately 19% of equity securities, 48% of fixed income securities, 21% of absolute return strategies, 6% of real estate, 2% of private equity and 4% of cash. A decline in the value of pension plan assets could result in additional funding requirements. FirstEnergys funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. During 2011, FirstEnergy made pre tax contributions to its qualified pension plans of $372 million. FirstEnergy made an additional $600 million pre tax contribution to the qualified pension plan on January 5, 2012. NDT funds have been established to satisfy NGCs and certain of the Utilities nuclear decommissioning obligations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 79% of the funds were invested in fixed income securities, 12% of the funds were invested in equity 81securities and 9% were invested in short term investments, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. The investments are carried at their market values of approximately $1,699 million, $258 million and $207 million for fixed income securities, equity securities and short term investments, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding ($52) million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $26 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. The decommissioning trusts of JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec are subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. NGC, OE and TE recognized in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million, $4 million and $1 million was contributed to the NDTs of JCP&L, OE and TE, respectively. FENOC has submitted a $95 million parental guarantee to the NRC for a short fall in nuclear decommissioning funding to Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry.CREDIT RISKCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. FirstEnergy evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. FirstEnergy may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. FirstEnergy monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.Wholesale Credit RiskFirstEnergy measures wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for derivatives in power, natural gas, coal and emission allowances, adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where FirstEnergy has a legally enforceable right of set off. FirstEnergy monitors and manages the credit risk of wholesale marketing, risk management and energy transacting operations through credit policies and procedures, which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral and the use of master netting agreements. FirstEnergy aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (S&P).Retail Credit RiskFirstEnergy is exposed to retail credit risk through competitive electricity activities, which serve residential, commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on contractual obligations or fail to pay for service rendered. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of customer accounts receivable balances, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve customers. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit approval policies, monitoring customer exposures and the use of credit mitigation measures such as deposits in the form of LOCs, cash or prepayment arrangements. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, FirstEnergys retail credit risk may be adversely impacted.REGULATORY MATTERSRegulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent amounts that are expected to be credited to customers through future regulated rates or amounts collected from customers for costs not yet incurred. FirstEnergy and the Utilities net their regulatory assets and liabilities based on federal and state jurisdictions. 82Net regulatory assets on FirstEnergys and the Utility Registrants Consolidated Balance Sheets are comprised of the following:Regulatory Assets FirstEnergy OE CEI TE JCP&L Met Ed Penelec (In millions)December 31, 2011 Regulatory transition costs $608 $ $ $ $424 $105 $79Customer receivables for future income taxes 508 42 1 2 29 129 145Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (210) (44) (99) (67)Asset removal costs (240) (34) (60) (23) (147) PJM transmission costs 340 (3) (3) (1) 181 63Deferred generation costs 382 125 224 37 (23) (11)Distribution costs 267 146 73 48 Other 375 87 60 7 146 36 Total $2,030 $363 $295 $70 $408 $329 $209December 31, 2010 Regulatory transition costs $770 $ $ $ $591 $131 $43Customer receivables for future income taxes 328 52 2 1 30 113 130Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (184) (31) (92) (61)Asset removal costs (237) (24) (47) (19) (147) PJM transmission costs 183 131 52Deferred generation costs 386 125 226 35 Distribution costs 426 216 155 55 Other 158 34 34 1 71 13 (1)Total $1,830 $403 $370 $73 $514 $296 $163Additionally, FirstEnergy had $381 million of net regulatory liabilities as of December 31, 2011, including $366 million of net regulatory liabilities attributable to Allegheny that are primarily related to asset removal costs. Net regulatory liabilities are classified within Other Noncurrent Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.Regulatory assets that do not earn a current return as of December 31, 2011 totaled approximately $413 million. Regulatory assets that do not earn a return are primarily comprised of certain regulatory transition and PJM transmission costs for Met Ed and Penelec of $182 million and $115 million, respectively, that are expected to be recovered by 2020, and certain storm damage costs and pension and OPEB costs incurred by JCP&L of $122 million that are expected to be recovered by 2026. RELIABILITY MATTERS Federally enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, AE Supply, FGCO, FENOC, ATSI and TrAIL. The NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day to day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to eight regional entities, including RFC. All of FirstEnergys facilities are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by the RFC. FirstEnergy believes that it is in compliance with all currently effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases self reporting an item to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying with future new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time; however, 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the future reliability standards be recovered in rates. Any future inability on FirstEnergys part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 9, 2008, a transformer at JCP&Ls Oceanview substation failed, resulting in an outage on certain bulk electric system (transmission voltage) lines out of the Oceanview and Atlantic substations resulting in customers losing power for up to eleven 83hours. On March 31, 2009, the NERC initiated a Compliance Violation Investigation in order to determine JCP&Ls contribution to the electrical event and to review any potential violation of NERC Reliability Standards associated with the event. NERC has submitted first and second Requests for Information regarding this and another related matter. JCP&L is complying with these requests. JCP&L is not able to predict what actions, if any, the NERC may take with respect to this matter. On August 23, 2010, FirstEnergy self reported to RFC a vegetation encroachment event on a Met Ed 230 kV line. This event did not result in a fault, outage, operation of protective equipment, or any other meaningful electric effect on any FirstEnergy transmission facilities or systems. On August 25, 2010, RFC issued a notice of enforcement to investigate the incident. FirstEnergy submitted a data response to RFC on September 27, 2010. On July 8, 2011, RFC and Met Ed signed a settlement agreement to resolve all outstanding issues related to the vegetation encroachment event. The settlement calls for Met Ed to pay a penalty of $650,000, and for FirstEnergy to perform certain mitigating actions. These mitigating actions include inspecting FirstEnergys transmission system using LiDAR technology, and reporting the results of inspections, and any follow up work, to RFC. FirstEnergy was performing the LiDAR work in response to certain other industry directives issued by NERC in 2010. NERC subsequently approved the settlement agreement and, on September 30, 2011, submitted the approved settlement to FERC for final approval. FERC approved the settlement agreement on October 28, 2011. Met Ed subsequently paid the $650,000 penalty and, on December 31, 2011, RFC sent written notice that this matter has been closed. In 2011, RFC performed routine compliance audits of parts of FirstEnergys bulk power system and generally found the audited systems and process to be in full compliance with all audited reliability standards. RFC will perform additional audits in 2012.MARYLANDBy statute enacted in 2007, the obligation of Maryland utilities to provide SOS to residential and small commercial customers, in exchange for recovery of their costs plus a reasonable profit, was extended indefinitely. The legislation also established a 5 year cycle (to begin in 2008) for the MDPSC to report to the legislature on the status of SOS. PE now conducts rolling auctions to procure the power supply necessary to serve its customer load pursuant to a plan approved by the MDPSC. However, the terms on which PE will provide SOS to residential customers after the current settlement expires at the end of 2012 will depend on developments with respect to SOS in Maryland over the coming year, including but not limited to, possible MDPSC decisions in the proceedings discussed below.The MDPSC opened a new docket in August 2007 to consider matters relating to possible managed portfolio approaches to SOS and other matters. Phase II of the case addressed utility purchases or construction of generation, bidding for procurement of demand response resources and possible alternatives if the TrAIL and PATH projects were delayed or defeated. It is unclear when the MDPSC will issue its findings in this proceeding.In September 2009, the MDPSC opened a new proceeding to receive and consider proposals for construction of new generation resources in Maryland. In December 2009, Governor Martin OMalley filed a letter in this proceeding in which he characterized the electricity market in Maryland as a failure and urged the MDPSC to use its existing authority to order the construction of new generation in Maryland, vary the means used by utilities to procure generation and include more renewables in the generation mix. In December 2010, the MDPSC issued an order soliciting comments on a model RFP for solicitation of long term energy commitments by Maryland electric utilities. PE and numerous other parties filed comments, and on September 29, 2011, the MDPSC issued an order requiring the utilities to issue the RFP crafted by the MDPSC by October 7, 2011. The RFPs were issued by the utilities as ordered by the MDPSC. The order, as amended, indicated that bids were due by January 20, 2012, and that the MDPSC would be the entity evaluating all bids. The Chairman of the MDPSC has stated publicly that several bids were received, but no other information was released. After receipt of further comments from interested parties, including PE, on January 13, 2012, a hearing on whether more generation is needed, irrespective of what bids may have been received, was held on January 31, 2012. There has been no further action on this matter.In September 2007, the MDPSC issued an order that required the Maryland utilities to file detailed plans for how they will meet the EmPOWER Maryland proposal that electric consumption be reduced by 10% and electricity demand be reduced by 15%, in each case by 2015.The Maryland legislature in 2008 adopted a statute codifying the EmPOWER Maryland goals. In 2008, PE filed its comprehensive plans for attempting to achieve those goals, asking the MDPSC to approve programs for residential, commercial, industrial, and governmental customers, as well as a customer education program. The MDPSC ultimately approved the programs in August 2009 after certain modifications had been made as required by the MDPSC, and approved cost recovery for the programs in October 2009. Expenditures were estimated to be approximately $101 million for the PE programs for the period of 2009 to 2015 and would be recovered over that six year period. Meanwhile, after extensive meetings with the MDPSC Staff and other stakeholders, PEs plans for additional and improved programs for the period 2012 2014 were filed on August 31, 2011. The MDPSC held hearings on PEs and the other utilities plans in October 2011, and on December 22, 2011, issued an order approving Potomac Edisons plan with various modifications and follow up assignments. On January 23, 2012, PE filed a Request for Rehearing because additional facts not considered by the MDPSC demonstrate, among other things, that conservation voltage reduction program expenditures should be accorded cost recovery through the EmPOWER surcharge, as has been provided for all other EmPOWER programs as opposed to recovery of those expenditures being addressed in a future base rate case as the MDPSC found in its order. 84In March 2009, the MDPSC issued an order temporarily suspending the right of all electric and gas utilities in the state to terminate service to residential customers for non payment of bills. The MDPSC subsequently issued an order making various rule changes relating to terminations, payment plans, and customer deposits that make it more difficult for Maryland utilities to collect deposits or to terminate service for non payment. The MDPSC is continuing to collect data on payment plan and related issues and has adopted regulations that expand the summer and winter severe weather termination moratoria when temperatures are very high or very low, from one day, as provided by statute, to three days on each occurrence.The Maryland legislature passed a bill on April 11, 2011, which requires the MDPSC to promulgate rules by July 1, 2012 that address service interruptions, downed wire response, customer communication, vegetation management, equipment inspection, and annual reporting. In crafting the regulations, the legislation directs the MDPSC to consider cost effectiveness, and provides that the MDPSC may adopt different standards for different utilities based on such factors as system design and existing infrastructure, geography, and customer density. Beginning in July 2013, the MDPSC is required to assess each utilitys compliance with the new rules, and may assess penalties of up to $25,000 per day per violation. The MDPSC convened a working group of utilities, regulators, and other interested stakeholders to address the topics of the proposed rules. A draft of the rules was filed, along with the report of the working group, on October 27, 2011. Hearings to consider the rules and comments occurred over four days between December 8 and 15, 2011, after which revised rules were sent for legislative review. The proposed rules were published in the Maryland Register on February 24, 2012, and a deadline of March 26, 2012, was set for the filing of further comments. A further hearing is required before the rules could become final. Separately, on July 7, 2011, the MDPSC adopted draft rules requiring monitoring and inspections for contact voltage. The draft rules were published in September, 2011. After a further hearing in October, 2011, the final rules were re published and became effective on November 28, 2011.NEW JERSEYOn September 8, 2011, the Division of Rate Counsel filed a Petition with the NJBPU asserting that it has reason to believe that JCP&L is earning an unreasonable return on its New Jersey jurisdictional rate base. The Division of Rate Counsel requests that the NJBPU order JCP&L to file a base rate case petition so that the NJBPU may determine whether JCP&Ls current rates for electric service are just and reasonable. JCP&L filed an answer to the Petition on September 28, 2011, stating, inter alia, that the Division of Rate Counsel analysis upon which it premises its Petition contains errors and inaccuracies, that JCP&Ls achieved return on equity is currently within a reasonable range, and that there is no reason for the NJBPU to require JCP&L to file a base rate case at this time. On November 30, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that the matter be assigned to the NJBPU President to act as presiding officer to set and modify the schedule for this matter as appropriate, decide upon motions, and otherwise control the conduct of this case, without the need for full Board approval. The matter is pending and a schedule for further proceedings has not yet been established. On September 22, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that JCP&L hire a Special Reliability Master, subject to NJBPU approval, to evaluate JCP&Ls design, operating, maintenance and performance standards as they pertain to the Morristown, New Jersey underground electric distribution system, and make recommendations to JCP&L and the NJBPU on the appropriate courses of action necessary to ensure adequate reliability and safety in the Morristown underground network. On October 12, 2011, the Special Reliability Master was selected and on January 31, 2012, the project report was submitted to the Company and NJBPU Staff. On February 10, 2012, the NJBPU accepted the report and directed the Staff to present recommendations on March 12, 2012, on actions required by JCP&L to ensure the safe, reliable operation of the Morristown network. Pursuant to a formal Notice issued by the NJBPU on September 14, 2011, public hearings were held on September 26 and 27, 2011, to solicit public comments regarding the state of preparedness and responsiveness of the local electric distribution companies prior to, during and after Hurricane Irene. By subsequent Notice issued September 28, 2011, additional hearings were held in October 2011. Additionally, the NJBPU accepted written comments through October 31, 2011 related to this inquiry. On December 4, 2011, the NJBPU Division of Reliability and Security issued a Request for Qualifications soliciting bid proposals from qualified consulting firms to provide expertise in the review and evaluation of New Jerseys electric distribution companies preparation and restoration to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. Responsive bids were submitted on January 20, 2012, and the report of selected bidder is to be submitted to the NJPBU 120 days from the date the contract is awarded. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff filed a report of its preliminary findings and recommendations with respect to the electric utility companies planning and response to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. The NJBPU has not indicated what additional action, if any, may be taken as a result of information obtained through this process.OHIOThe Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2014. The material terms of the ESP include: generation supplied through a CBP commencing June 1, 2011; a load cap of no less than 80%, which also applies to tranches assigned post auction; a 6% generation discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (FES is one of the wholesale suppliers to the Ohio Companies); no increase in base distribution rates through May 31, 2014; and a new distribution rider, Rider DCR, to recover a return of, and on, capital investments in the delivery system. The Ohio Companies also agreed not to recover from retail customers certain costs related to transmission cost allocations by PJM as a result of ATSIs integration into PJM for the longer of the five year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2015 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million dependent on the outcome of certain PJM proceedings, agreed to establish a $12 million fund to assist low income customers over the term of the ESP and agreed to 85additional matters related to energy efficiency and alternative energy requirements.Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately 166,000 MWH in 2009, 290,000 MWH in 2010, 410,000 MWH in 2011, 470,000 MWH in 2012 and 530,000 MWH in 2013, with additional savings required through 2025. Utilities were also required to reduce peak demand in 2009 by 1%, with an additional 0.75% reduction each year thereafter through 2018.In December 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required three year portfolio plan seeking approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand reduction requirements for the 2010 2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers in 2012. The PUCO issued an Opinion and Order generally approving the Ohio Companies three year plan, and the Ohio Companies are in the process of implementing those programs included in the Plan. OE fell short of its statutory 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks and therefore, on January 11, 2011, it requested that its 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks be amended to actual levels achieved in 2010. Moreover, because the PUCO indicated, when approving the 2009 benchmark request, that it would modify the Ohio Companies 2010 (and 2011 and 2012) energy efficiency benchmarks when addressing the portfolio plan, the Ohio Companies were not certain of their 2010 energy efficiency obligations. Therefore, CEI and TE (each of which achieved its 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction statutory benchmarks) also requested an amendment if and only to the degree one was deemed necessary to bring them into compliance with their yet to be defined modified benchmarks. On May 19, 2011, the PUCO granted the request to reduce the 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reductions to the level achieved in 2010 for OE, while finding that the motion was moot for CEI and TE. On June 2, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application for rehearing to clarify the decision related to CEI and TE. On July 27, 2011, the PUCO denied that application for rehearing, but clarified that CEI and TE could apply for an amendment in the future for the 2010 benchmarks should it be necessary to do so. Failure to comply with the benchmarks or to obtain such an amendment may subject the Ohio Companies to an assessment of a penalty by the PUCO. In addition to approving the programs included in the plan, with only minor modifications, the PUCO authorized the Ohio Companies to recover all costs related to the original CFL program that the Ohio Companies had previously suspended at the request of the PUCO. Applications for Rehearing were filed by the Ohio Companies, Ohio Energy Group and Nucor Steel Marion, Inc. on April 22, 2011, regarding portions of the PUCOs decision, including the method for calculating savings and certain changes made by the PUCO to specific programs. On September 7, 2011, the PUCO denied those applications for rehearing. The PUCO also included a new standard for compliance with the statutory energy efficiency benchmarks by requiring electric distribution companies to offer all available cost effective energy efficiency opportunities regardless of their level of compliance with the benchmarks as set forth in the statute. On October 7, 2011, the Ohio Companies, the Industrial Energy Users Ohio, and the Ohio Energy Group filed applications for rehearing, arguing that the PUCOS new standard is unlawful. The Ohio Companies also asked the PUCO to withdraw its amendment of CEIs and TEs 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks. The PUCO did not rule on the Applications for Rehearing within thirty days, thus denying them by operation of law. On December 30, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed a notice of appeal with the Supreme Court of Ohio, challenging the PUCOs new standard. No procedural schedule has been established. Additionally, under SB221, electric utilities and electric service companies are required to serve part of their load in 2011 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 1.00% of the average of the KWH they served in 2008 2010; in 2012 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 1.50% of the average of the KWH they served in 2009 2011; and in 2013 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 2.00% of the average of the KWH they served in 2010 2012. In August and October 2009, the Ohio Companies conducted RFPs to secure RECs. The RECs acquired through these two RFPs were used to help meet the renewable energy requirements established under SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. In March 2010, the PUCO found that there was an insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market and reduced the Ohio Companies aggregate 2009 benchmark to the level of SRECs the Ohio Companies acquired through their 2009 RFP processes, provided the Ohio Companies 2010 alternative energy requirements be increased to include the shortfall for the 2009 solar REC benchmark. On April 15, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application seeking an amendment to each of their 2010 alternative energy requirements for solar RECs generated in Ohio on the basis that an insufficient quantity of solar resources are available in the market but reflecting solar RECs that they have obtained and providing additional information regarding efforts to secure solar RECs. On August 3, 2011, the PUCO granted the Ohio Companies force majeure request for 2010 and increased their 2011 benchmark by the amount of SRECs generated in Ohio that the Ohio Companies were short in 2010. On September 2, 2011, the Environmental Law and Policy Center and Nucor Steel Marion, Inc. filed applications for rehearing. The Ohio Companies filed their response on September 12, 2011. These applications for rehearing were denied by the PUCO on September 20, 2011, but as part of its Entry on Rehearing the PUCO opened a new docket to review the Ohio Companies alternative energy recovery rider. Separately, one party has filed a request that the PUCO audit the cost of the Ohio Companies compliance with the alternative energy requirements and the Ohio Companies compliance with Ohio law. The PUCO selected auditors to perform a financial and a management audit, and final audit reports are to be filed with the PUCO by May 15, 2012. In August 2011, the Ohio Companies conducted two RFP processes to obtain RECs to meet the statutory benchmarks for 2011 and beyond. PENNSYLVANIAThe PPUC entered an Order on March 3, 2010 that denied the recovery of marginal transmission losses through the TSC rider for the period of June 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, directed Met Ed and Penelec to submit a new tariff or tariff supplement reflecting the removal of marginal transmission losses from the TSC, and instructed Met Ed and Penelec to work with the various intervening parties to file a recommendation to the PPUC regarding the establishment of a separate account for all marginal transmission losses 86collected from customers plus interest to be used to mitigate future generation rate increases beginning January 1, 2011. In March 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition with the PPUC requesting that it stay the portion of the March 3, 2010 Order requiring the filing of tariff supplements to end collection of costs for marginal transmission losses. The PPUC granted the requested stay until December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the PPUCs order, Met Ed and Penelec filed plans to establish separate accounts for marginal transmission loss revenues and related interest and carrying charges. Pursuant to the plan approved by the PPUC, Met Ed and Penelec began to refund those amounts to customers in January 2011, and the refunds are continuing over a 29 month period until the full amounts previously recovered for marginal transmission loses are refunded. In April 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania appealing the PPUCs March 3, 2010 Order. On June 14, 2011, the Commonwealth Court issued an opinion and order affirming the PPUCs Order to the extent that it holds that line loss costs are not transmission costs and, therefore, the approximately $254 million in marginal transmission losses and associated carrying charges for the period prior to January 1, 2011, are not recoverable under Met Eds and Penelecs TSC riders. Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and also a complaint seeking relief in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, which was subsequently amended. The PPUC filed a Motion to Dismiss Met Eds and Penelecs Amended Complaint on September 15, 2011. Met Ed and Penelec filed a Responsive brief in Opposition to the PPUCs Motion to Dismiss on October 11, 2011. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, Met Ed and Penelec believe that they should ultimately prevail through the judicial process and therefore expect to fully recover the approximately $254 million ($189 million for Met Ed and $65 million for Penelec) in marginal transmission losses for the period prior to January 1, 2011.In each of May 2008, 2009 and 2010, the PPUC approved Met Eds and Penelecs annual updates to their TSC rider for the annual periods between June 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The PPUCs approval in May 2010 authorized an increase to the TSC for Met Eds customers to provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010. In February 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its DSP for the period June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. In July 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs.Pennsylvania adopted Act 129 in 2008 to address issues such as: energy efficiency and peak load reduction; generation procurement; time of use rates; smart meters; and alternative energy. Among other things, Act 129 required utilities to file with the PPUC an energy efficiency and peak load reduction plan, (EE&C Plan), by July 1, 2009, setting forth the utilities plans to reduce energy consumption by a minimum of 1% and 3% by May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2013, respectively, and to reduce peak demand by a minimum of 4.5% by May 31, 2013. Act 129 provides for potentially significant financial penalties to be assessed upon utilities that fail to achieve the required reductions in consumption and peak demand. Act 129 also required utilities to file a SMIP with the PPUC. The PPUC entered an Order in February 2010 giving final approval to all aspects of the EE&C Plans of Met Ed, Penelec and Penn and the tariff rider became effective March 1, 2010. On February 18, 2011, the companies filed a petition to approve their First Amended EE&C Plans. On June 28, 2011, a hearing on the petition was held before an ALJ. On December 15, 2011, the ALJ recommended that the amended plans be approved as proposed, and on January 12, 2012, the Commission approved the plans. WP filed its original EE&C Plan in June 2009, which the PPUC approved, in large part, by Opinion and Order entered in October 2009. In September 2010, WP filed an amended EE&C Plan that is less reliant on smart meter deployment, which the PPUC approved in January 2011.On August 9, 2011, WP filed a petition to approve its Second Amended EE&C Plan. The proposed Second Revised Plan includes measures and a new program and implementation strategies consistent with the successful EE&C programs of Met Ed, Penelec and Penn that are designed to enable WP to achieve the post 2011 Act 129 EE&C requirements. On January 6, 2012, a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues was filed by the parties to the proceeding.The Pennsylvania Companies submitted a preliminary report on July 15, 2011, and a final report on November 15, 2011, in which they reported on their compliance with statutory May 31, 2011, energy efficiency benchmarks. Met Ed, Penelec and Penn achieved the 2011 benchmarks; however WP has been unable to provide final results because several customers are still accumulating necessary documentation for projects that may qualify for inclusion in the final results. Preliminary numbers indicate that WP did not achieve its 2011 benchmark and it is not known at this time whether WP will be subject to a fine for failure to achieve the benchmark. WP is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate any possible loss or range of loss. In December 2009, WP filed a motion to reopen the evidentiary record to submit an alternative smart meter plan proposing, among other things, a less rapid deployment of smart meters.In light of the significant expenditures that would be associated with its smart meter deployment plans and related infrastructure upgrades, as well as its evaluation of recent PPUC decisions approving less rapid deployment proposals by other utilities, WP re 87evaluated its Act 129 compliance strategy, including both its plans with respect to smart meter deployment and certain smart meter dependent aspects of the EE&C Plan. In October 2010, WP and Pennsylvanias OCA filed a Joint Petition for Settlement addressing WPs smart meter implementation plan with the PPUC. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP proposed to decelerate its previously contemplated smart meter deployment schedule and to target the installation of approximately 25,000 smart meters in support of its EE&C Plan, based on customer requests, by mid 2012. The proposed settlement also contemplates that WP take advantage of the 30 month grace period authorized by the PPUC to continue WPs efforts to re evaluate full scale smart meter deployment plans. WP currently anticipates filing its plan for full scale deployment of smart meters in June 2012. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP would be permitted to recover certain previously incurred and anticipated smart meter related expenditures through a levelized customer surcharge, with certain expenditures amortized over a ten year period. Additionally, WP would be permitted to seek recovery of certain other costs as part of its revised SMIP that it currently intends to file in June 2012, or in a future base distribution rate case.Following additional proceedings, on March 9, 2011, WP submitted an Amended Joint Petition for Settlement which restates the Joint Petition for Settlement filed in October 2010, adds the PPUCs Office of Trial Staff as a signatory party, and confirms the support or non opposition of all parties to the settlement. One party retained the ability to challenge the recovery of amounts spent on WPs original smart meter implementation plan. A Joint Stipulation with the OSBA was also filed on March 9, 2011. The PPUC approved the Amended Joint Petition for Full Settlement by order entered June 30, 2011. By Tentative Order entered in September 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional 30 day comment period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met Ed and Penelec were going to implement direct access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met Ed and Penelec to apply over collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non NUG stranded costs when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various parties filed comments objecting to the accounting method utilized by Met Ed and Penelec. On January 30, 2012, the Commission entered a final order approving Met Eds and Penelecs accounting methodology whereby NUG over collection revenue may be used to reduce non NUG stranded costs, even if a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In the PPUC Order approving the FirstEnergy and Allegheny merger, the PPUC announced that a separate statewide investigation into Pennsylvanias retail electricity market will be conducted with the goal of making recommendations for improvements to ensure that a properly functioning and workable competitive retail electricity market exists in the state. On April 29, 2011, the PPUC entered an Order initiating the investigation and requesting comments from interested parties on eleven directed questions concerning retail markets in Pennsylvania. Met Ed, Penelec, Penn Power and WP submitted joint comments on June 3, 2011. FES also submitted comments on June 3, 2011. On June 8, 2011, the PPUC conducted an en banc hearing on these issues at which both the Pennsylvania Companies and FES participated and offered testimony. A technical conference was held on August 10, 2011, and a second en banc was held on November 10, 2011, to discuss intermediate steps that can be taken to promote the development of a competitive market. Teleconferences are scheduled through March 2012, with another en banc hearing to be held on March 21, 2012, to explore the future of default service in Pennsylvania following the expiration of the upcoming default service plans on May 31, 2015. Following the issuance of a Tentative Order and comments filed by numerous parties, the Commission entered a final order on December 16, 2011, providing recommendations for components to be included in upcoming default service plans. An intermediate work plan was also presented on December 16, 2011, by Tentative Order, on which initial comments were submitted by Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP on January 17, 2012. FES also submitted comments. Reply comments were submitted on February 1, 2012. It is expected that a final order implementing the intermediate work plan and a long range plan will be presented by the PPUC, both in March 2012. The PPUC issued a Proposed Rulemaking Order on August 25, 2011, which proposed a number of substantial modifications to the current Code of Conduct regulations that were promulgated to provide competitive safeguards to the competitive retail electric market in Pennsylvania. The proposed changes include, but are not limited to: an EGS may not have the same or substantially similar name as the EDC or its corporate parent; EDCs and EGSs would not be permitted to share office space and would need to occupy different buildings; EDCs and affiliated EGSs could not share employees or services, except certain corporate support, emergency, or tariff services (the definition of "corporate support services" excludes items such as information systems, electronic data interchange, strategic management and planning, regulatory services, legal services, or commodities that have been included in regulated rates at less than market value); and an EGS must enter into a trademark agreement with the EDC before using its trademark or service mark. The Proposed Rulemaking Order, which was published on February 11, 2012, calls for comments to be submitted by March 27, 2012. If implemented these rules could require a significant change in the way FES, Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP do business in Pennsylvania, and could possibly have an adverse impact on their results of operations and financial condition. In November 2011, Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP filed a Joint Petition for Approval of their Default Service Plan for the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The Pennsylvania Companies direct case was submitted in its entirety on December 20, 2011. Evidentiary hearings are scheduled for April 11 13, 2012, and a final order must be entered by the PPUC by August 17, 2012.WEST VIRGINIAIn 2009, the West Virginia Legislature enacted the AREPA, which generally requires that a specified minimum percentage of electricity sold to retail customers in West Virginia by electric utilities each year be derived from alternative and renewable energy resources according to a predetermined schedule of increasing percentage targets, including 10% by 2015, 15% by 2020, and 25% by 2025. 88In November 2010, the WVPSC issued RPS Rules, which became effective on January 4, 2011. Under the RPS Rules, on or before January 1, 2011, each electric utility subject to the provisions of this rule was required to prepare an alternative and renewable energy portfolio standard compliance plan and file an application with the WVPSC seeking approval of such plan. MP and PE filed their combined compliance plan in December 2010. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on June 13, 2011. An order was issued by the WVPSC in September 2011, which conditionally approved MPs and PEs compliance plan, contingent on the outcome of the resource credits case discussed below.Additionally, in January 2011, MP and PE filed an application with the WVPSC seeking to certify three facilities as Qualified Energy Resource Facilities. The application was approved and the three facilities are capable of generating renewable credits which will assist the companies in meeting their combined requirements under the AREPA. An annual update filing is due on March 31, 2012. Further, in February 2011, MP and PE filed a petition with the WVPSC seeking an Order declaring that MP is entitled to all alternative and renewable energy resource credits associated with the electric energy, or energy and capacity, that MP is required to purchase pursuant to electric energy purchase agreements between MP and three non utility electric generating facilities in West Virginia. The City of New Martinsville and Morgantown Energy Associates, each the owner of one of the contracted resources, has participated in the case in opposition to the Petition. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on August 25 and 26, 2011. On November 22, 2011, the WVPSC issued an order granting ownership of all RECs produced by the facilities to MP. On December 22, 2011, the WVPSC order was appealed, and the order was stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. MPs brief was filed on February 13, 2012. Should MP be unsuccessful in the appeal, it will have to procure the requisite RECs to comply with AREPA from other sources. MP expects to recover such costs from customers.In September 2011, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC to recover costs associated with fuel and purchased power (the ENEC) in the amount of $32 million which represents an approximate 3% overall increase in such costs over the past two years, primarily attributable to rising coal prices. The requested increase was partially offset by $2.5 million of synergy savings directly resulting from the merger of FirstEnergy and AE, which closed in February 2011. Under a cost recovery clause established by the WVPSC in 2007, MP and PE customer bills are adjusted periodically to reflect upward or downward changes in the cost of fuel and purchased power. The utilities most recent request to recover costs for fuel and purchased power was in September 2009. MP and PE entered into a Settlement Agreement related to this matter. The WVPSC issued an order on December 30, 2011, approving the settlement agreement. The approved settlement resulted in an increase of $19.6 million, instead of the requested $32 million, with additional costs to be recovered over time with a carrying charge.FERC MATTERSPJM Transmission RateIn April 2007, FERC issued Opinion 494 finding that the PJM transmission owners existing license plate or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at 500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a postage stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a load flow methodology, which is generally referred to as a beneficiary pays approach to allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities.FERCs Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which issued a decision in August 2009. The court affirmed FERCs ratemaking treatment for existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate costs for new 500 kV and higher voltage facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded the rate design issue to FERC.In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for a paper hearing and requested parties to submit written comments pursuant to the schedule described in the order. FERC identified nine separate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJMs filing demonstrated that allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results in certain load serving entities in PJM bearing the majority of the costs. Numerous parties filed responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Other utilities and state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a load ratio share basis. This matter is awaiting action by FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. RTO RealignmentOn June 1, 2011, ATSI and the ATSI zone entered into PJM. The move was performed as planned with no known operational or reliability issues for ATSI or for the wholesale transmission customers in the ATSI zone.On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJMs tariffs. On April 1, 2011, the MISO TOs (including ATSI) filed proposed tariff language that describes the mechanics of collecting and 89administering MTEP costs from ATSI zone ratepayers. From March 20, 2011 through April 1, 2011, FirstEnergy, PJM and the MISO submitted numerous filings for the purpose of effecting movement of the ATSI zone to PJM on June 1, 2011. These filings include amendments to the MISOs tariffs (to remove the ATSI zone), submission of load and generation interconnection agreements to reflect the move into PJM, and submission of changes to PJMs tariffs to support the move into PJM. On May 31, 2011, FERC issued orders that address the proposed ATSI transmission rate, and certain parts of the MISO tariffs that reflect the mechanics of transmission cost allocation and collection. In its May 31, 2011 orders, FERC approved ATSIs proposal to move the ATSI formula rate into the PJM tariff without significant change. Speaking to ATSIs proposed treatment of the MISOs exit fees and charges for transmission costs that were allocated to the ATSI zone, FERC required ATSI to present a cost benefit study that demonstrates that the benefits of the move for transmission customers exceed the costs of any such move, which FERC had not previously required. Accordingly, FERC ruled that these costs must be removed from ATSIs proposed transmission rates until such time as ATSI files and FERC approves the cost benefit study. On June 30, 2011, ATSI submitted the compliance filing that removed the MISO exit fees and transmission cost allocation charges from ATSIs proposed transmission rates. Also on June 30, 2011, ATSI requested rehearing of FERCs decision to require a cost benefit analysis as part of FERCs evaluation of ATSIs proposed transmission rates. Finally, and also on June 30, 2011, the MISO and the MISO TOs filed a competing compliance filing one that would require ATSI to pay certain charges related to construction and operation of transmission projects within the MISO even though FERC ruled that ATSI cannot pass these costs on to ATSIs customers. ATSI on the one hand, and the MISO and MISO TOs on the other, have submitted subsequent filings each of which is intended to refute the others claims. ATSIs compliance filing and request for rehearing, as well as the pleadings that reflect the dispute between ATSI and the MISO/MISO TOs, are currently pending before FERC.From late April 2011 through June 2011, FERC issued other orders that address ATSIs move into PJM. Also, ATSI and the MISO were able to negotiate an agreement of ATSIs responsibility for certain charges associated with long term firm transmission rights that, according to the MISO, were payable by the ATSI zone upon its departure from the MISO. ATSI did not and does not agree that these costs should be charged to ATSI but, in order to settle the case and all claims associated with the case, ATSI agreed to a one time payment of $1.8 million to the MISO. This settlement agreement has been submitted for FERCs review and approval. The final outcome of those proceedings that address the remaining open issues related to ATSIs move into PJM and their impact, if any, on FirstEnergy cannot be predicted at this time. MISO Multi Value Project Rule ProposalIn July 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission projects described as MVPs are a class of transmission projects that are approved via the MTEP. The filing parties proposed to allocate the costs of MVPs by means of a usage based charge that will be applied to all loads within the MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be wheeled through the MISO as well as to energy transactions that source in the MISO but sink outside of MISO. The filing parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the east. The filing parties requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISOs Board approved the first MVP project the Michigan Thumb Project. Under MISOs proposal, the costs of MVP projects approved by MISOs Board prior to the June 1, 2011 effective date of FirstEnergys integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated that approximately $15 million in annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion. In September 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISOs proposal to allocate costs of MVPs projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the beneficiary pays approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress that had been made to date in the ATSI integration into PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI. Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISOs MVP proposal.In December 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change. Despite being presented with the issue by FirstEnergy and the MISO, the FERC did not address clearly the question of whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISOs tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attached prior to ATSIs exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERCs order and would be addressed in future proceedings. On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy requested rehearing of FERCs order. In its rehearing request, FirstEnergy argued that because the MVP rate is usage based, costs could not be applied to ATSI, which is a stand alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the ATSI zone or to ATSI. On October 21, 2011, FERC issued its order on rehearing, but that order did not address FirstEnergys argument directly. FERC ruled instead that if ATSI was subject to MVP charges then ATSI owed these charges upon exit of the MISO. On October 31, 2011, FESC filed a Petition of Review for the FERCs December 2010 order and October 21, 2011 order on rehearing of that order with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Other parties also filed appeals of those orders and, in November, 2011, the cases were consolidated for briefing and disposition in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On January 27, 2012, the court ordered the FERC to file a proposed briefing format and schedule on or before March 20, 2012. 90On August 3, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a complaint with FERC based on the FERCs December 2010 order. In the complaint, FirstEnergy argued that ATSI perfected the legal and financial requirements necessary to exit MISO before any MVP responsibilities could attach and asked FERC to rule that MISO cannot charge ATSI for MVP costs. On September 2, 2011, MISO, its TOs and other parties, filed responsive pleadings. On September 19, 2011, ATSI filed an answer. On December 29, 2011, the MISO and the MISO TOs filed a new Schedule 39 to the MISOs tariff. Schedule 39 purports to establish a process whereby the MISO would bill TOs for MVP costs that, according to the MISO, attached to the utility prior to such TOs withdrawal from the MISO. On January 19, 2012, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MISOs new Schedule 39 tariff. On February 27, 2012, FERC issued an order (February 2012 Order) dismissing ATSIs August 3, 2011 complaint. In the February 2012 Order, FERC accepted the MISOs Schedule 39 tariff, subject to hearings and potential refund of MVP charges to ATSI. The basis for any subsequent hearing is whether the Schedule 39 tariff was in effect at the time that ATSI exited the MISO. FirstEnergy is evaluating the February 2012 Order and will determine the next steps.FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.FirstEnergy Companies PJM FTR Contract Underfunding ComplaintOn December 28, 2011, FES and AE Supply filed a complaint with FERC against PJM challenging the ongoing underfunding of FTR contracts, which exist to hedge against transmission congestion in the day ahead markets. The underfunding is a result of PJMs practice of using the funds that are intended to pay the holders of FTR contracts to pay instead for congestion costs that occur in the real time markets. Underfunding of the FTR contracts resulted in losses of approximately $35 million to FES and AE Supply in the 2010 2011 Delivery Year. To date, losses for the 2011 2012 Delivery Year are estimated to be approximately $6 million. On January 13, 2012, PJM filed comments that describe changes to the PJM tariff that, if adopted, should remedy the underfunding issue. Many parties also filed comments supporting FES and AE Supplys position. Other parties, generally representatives of end use customers who will have to pay the charges, filed in opposition to the complaint. The matter is currently pending before FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. California Claims MattersIn October 2006, several California governmental and utility parties presented AE Supply with a settlement proposal to resolve alleged overcharges for power sales by AE Supply to the California Energy Resource Scheduling division of the CDWR during 2001. The settlement proposal claims that CDWR is owed approximately $190 million for these alleged overcharges. This proposal was made in the context of mediation efforts by FERC and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in pending proceedings to resolve all outstanding refund and other claims, including claims of alleged price manipulation in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The Ninth Circuit has since remanded one of those proceedings to FERC, which arises out of claims previously filed with FERC by the California Attorney General on behalf of certain California parties against various sellers in the California wholesale power market, including AE Supply (the Lockyer case). AE Supply and several other sellers filed motions to dismiss the Lockyer case. In March 2010, the judge assigned to the case entered an opinion that granted the motions to dismiss filed by AE Supply and other sellers and dismissed the claims of the California Parties. On May 4, 2011, FERC affirmed the judges ruling. On June 3, 2011, the California parties requested rehearing of the May 4, 2011 order. The request for rehearing remains pending. In June 2009, the California Attorney General, on behalf of certain California parties, filed a second complaint with FERC against various sellers, including AE Supply (the Brown case), again seeking refunds for trades in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The above noted trades with CDWR are the basis for including AE Supply in this new complaint. AE Supply filed a motion to dismiss the Brown complaint that was granted by FERC on May 24, 2011. On June 23, 2011, the California Attorney General requested rehearing of the May 24, 2011 order. That request for rehearing also remains pending. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of either of the above matters or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. PATH Transmission ProjectThe PATH Project is comprised of a 765 kV transmission line that was proposed to extend from West Virginia through Virginia and into Maryland, modifications to an existing substation in Putnam County, West Virginia, and the construction of new substations in Hardy County, West Virginia and Frederick County, Maryland. PJM initially authorized construction of the PATH Project in June 2007. In December 2010, PJM advised that its 2011 Load Forecast Report included load projections that are different from previous forecasts and that may have an impact on the proposed in service date for the PATH Project. As part of its 2011 RTEP, and in response to a January 19, 2011, directive by a Virginia Hearing Examiner, PJM conducted a series of analyses using the most current economic forecasts and demand response commitments, as well as potential new generation resources. Preliminary analysis revealed the expected reliability violations that necessitated the PATH Project had moved several years into the future. Based on those results, PJM announced on February 28, 2011, that its Board of Managers had decided to hold the PATH Project in abeyance in its 2011 RTEP and directed FirstEnergy and AEP, as the sponsoring transmission owners, to suspend current development efforts on the project, subject to those activities necessary to maintain the project in its current state, while PJM conducts more rigorous analysis of the need for the project as part of its continuing RTEP 91process. PJM stated that its action did not constitute a directive to FirstEnergy and AEP to cancel or abandon the PATH Project. PJM further stated that it will complete a more rigorous analysis of the PATH Project and other transmission requirements and its Board will review this comprehensive analysis as part of its consideration of the 2011 RTEP. On February 28, 2011, affiliates of FirstEnergy and AEP filed motions or notices to withdraw applications for authorization to construct the project that were pending before state commissions in West Virginia, Virginia and Maryland. Withdrawal was deemed effective upon filing the notice with the MDPSC. The WVPSC and VSCC have granted the motions to withdraw.PATH submitted a filing to FERC to implement a formula rate tariff effective March 1, 2008. In a November 19, 2010 order addressing various matters relating to the formula rate, FERC set the projects base ROE for hearing and reaffirmed its prior authorization of a return on CWIP, recovery of start up costs and recovery of abandonment costs. In the order, FERC also granted a 1.5% ROE incentive adder and a 0.5% ROE adder for RTO participation. These adders will be applied to the base ROE determined as a result of the hearing. The PATH Companies, Joint Intervenors, Joint Consumer Advocates and FERC staff have agreed to a four year moratorium. A settlement was reached, which reflects a base ROE of 10.4% (plus authorized adders) effective January 1, 2011. Accordingly, the revised ROE was reflected in a revised Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement for 2011 with true up occurring in 2013. The FirstEnergy portion of the refund for March 1, 2008, through December 31, 2010, is approximately $2 million (inclusive of interest). The refund amount was computed using a base ROE of 10.8% plus authorized adders. On October 7, 2011, PATH and six intervenors submitted to FERC an unopposed settlement agreement. Contemporaneous with this submission, PATH and the six intervenors filed with the Chief ALJ of FERC a joint motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund on an interim basis pending issuance of a FERC order acting on the settlement agreement. On October 12, 2011, the motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund was granted by the Chief ALJ. On February 16, 2012, FERC approved the settlement agreement and dismissed as moot, in light of its approval of the settlement, PATHs pending request for rehearing of the November 19, 2010 order.Yards CreekThe Yards Creek Pumped Storage Project is a 400 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County, New Jersey. JCP&L owns an undivided 50% interest in the project, and operates the project. PSEG Fossil, LLC, a subsidiary of Public Service Enterprise Group, owns the remaining interest in the plant. The project was constructed in the early 1960s, and became operational in 1965. Authorization to operate the project is by a license issued by the FERC. The existing license expires on February 28, 2013. In February 2011, JCP&L and PSEG filed a joint application with FERC to renew the license for an additional forty years. The companies are pursuing relicensure through FERCs ILP. Under the ILP, FERC will assess the license applications, issue draft and final Environmental Assessments/Environmental Impact Studies (as required by NEPA), and provide opportunities for intervention and protests by affected third parties. FERC may hold hearings during the two year ILP licensure period. FirstEnergy expects FERC to issue the new license within the remaining portion of the two year ILP period. To the extent, however, that the license proceedings extend beyond the February 28, 2013 expiration date for the current license, the current license will be extended yearly as necessary to permit FERC to issue the new license. SenecaThe Seneca Pumped Storage Project is a 451 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County, Pennsylvania owned and operated by FGCO. FGCO holds the current FERC license that authorizes ownership and operation of the project. The current FERC license will expire on November 30, 2015. FERCs regulations call for a five year relicensing process. On November 24, 2010, and acting pursuant to applicable FERC regulations and rules, FGCO initiated the relicensing process by filing its notice of intent to relicense and PAD in the license docket. On November 30, 2010, the Seneca Nation filed its notice of intent to relicense and PADs necessary for them to submit a competing application. Section 15 of the FPA contemplates that third parties may file a "competing application" to assume ownership and operation of a hydroelectric facility upon (i) relicensure and (ii) payment of net book value of the plant to the original owner/operator. Nonetheless, FGCO believes it is entitled to a statutory incumbent preference under Section 15. The Seneca Nation and certain other intervenors have asked FERC to redefine the project boundary of the hydroelectric plant to include the dam and reservoir facilities operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. On May 16, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a Petition for Declaratory Order with FERC seeking an order to exclude the dam and reservoir facilities from the project. The Seneca Nation, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and the U.S. Department of Interior each submitted responses to FirstEnergys petition, including motions to dismiss FirstEnergys petition. The project boundary issue is pending before FERC. On September 12, 2011, FirstEnergy and the Seneca Nation each filed Revised Study Plan documents. These documents describe the parties respective proposals for the scope of the environmental studies that should be performed as part of the relicensing process. On October 11, 2011, FERC Staff issued a letter order that addressed the Revised Study Plans. In the order, FERC Staff approved FirstEnergys Revised Study Plan, subject to a finding that the Project is located on aboriginal lands of the Seneca Nation. Based on this finding, FERC Staff directed FirstEnergy to consult with the Seneca Nation and other parties about the data set, methodology, and modeling of the hydrological impacts of project operations. FirstEnergy is performing the work necessary to develop a study proposal from which to conduct such consultations. The study process will extend through approximately November of 2013. 92FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERSVarious federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations. CAA ComplianceFirstEnergy is required to meet federally approved SO2 and NOx emissions regulations under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower or non emitting plants and or using emission allowances. Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and or civil or criminal penalties.In July 2008, three complaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on air emissions from the coal fired Bruce Mansfield Plant. Two of these complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty one individuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints. The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at the coal fired Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (formerly RRI Energy, Inc. and the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met Ed in 1999) and Met Ed. Specifically, these suits allege that modifications at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program, and seek injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009, the Court granted Met Eds motion to dismiss New Jerseys and Connecticuts claims for injunctive relief against Met Ed, but denied Met Eds motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The parties dispute the scope of Met Eds indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy, and Met Ed is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn Energy, Inc. alleging NSR violations at the coal fired Portland Generation Station based on modifications dating back to 1986. The NOV also alleged NSR violations at the Keystone and Shawville coal fired plants based on modifications dating back to 1984. Met Ed, JCP&L and Penelec are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In each of May and September 2010, New Jersey submitted interstate pollution transport petitions seeking to reduce Portland Generating Station air emissions under section 126 of the CAA. Based on the September 2010 petition, the EPA has finalized emissions limits and compliance schedules to reduce SO2 air emissions by approximately 81% at the Portland Station by January 6, 2015. New Jerseys May 2010 petition is still under consideration by the EPA. In June 2008, the EPA issued a Notice and Finding of Violation to Mission alleging that modifications at the coal fired Homer City Plant occurred from 1988 to the present without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program. In May 2010, the EPA issued a second NOV to Mission, Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in Homer City containing in all material respects allegations identical to those included in the June 2008 NOV. In January 2011, the DOJ filed a complaint against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking injunctive relief against Penelec based on alleged modifications at Homer City between 1991 to 1994 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD and Title V permitting programs. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG, and various current owners of Homer City, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. In addition, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York intervened and have filed separate complaints regarding Homer City seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties. In January 2011, another complaint was filed against Penelec and the other entities described above in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Homer Citys air emissions as well as certification as a class action and to enjoin Homer City from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner. In October 2011, the Court dismissed all of the claims with prejudice of the U.S. and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York and all of the claims of the private parties, without prejudice to re file state law claims in state court, against all of the defendants, including Penelec.In December 2011, the U.S., the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York all filed notices appealing to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Penelec believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the loss or possible range of loss. Mission is seeking indemnification from NYSEG and Penelec, the co owners of Homer City prior to its sale in 1999. On February 13, 2012, the Sierra Club notified the current owner and operator of Homer City, Homer City OL1 OL8 LLC and EME Homer City Generation L.P., that it intends to file a CAA citizen suit regarding its Title V permit and SO2 emissions from the Homer City Plant.In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, including the 93PSD, NNSR and Title V regulations, at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal fired plants. The EPAs NOV alleges equipment replacements during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre construction permitting requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO also received a request for certain operating and maintenance information and planning information for these same generating plants and notification that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake Plant may constitute a major modification under the NSR provisions of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake Plant. In June 2011, EPA issued another Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, specifically opacity limitations and requirements to continuously operate opacity monitoring systems at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal fired plants. Also, in June 2011, FirstEnergy received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA for certain operating, maintenance and planning information, among other information regarding these plants. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPAs information requests but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In August 2000, AE received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA from the EPA requesting that it provide information and documentation relevant to the operation and maintenance of the following ten coal fired plants, which collectively include 22 electric generation units: Albright, Armstrong, Fort Martin, Harrison, Hatfields Ferry, Mitchell, Pleasants, Rivesville, R. Paul Smith and Willow Island to determine compliance with the NSR provisions under the CAA, which can require the installation of additional air emission control equipment when a major modification of an existing facility results in an increase in emissions. AE has provided responsive information to this and a subsequent request but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In May 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a Notice of Intent to Sue Pursuant to CAA 7604 from the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and from the PA DEP, alleging that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the PSD provisions of the CAA at the following West Virginia coal fired generation units: Albright Unit 3; Fort Martin Units 1 and 2; Harrison Units 1, 2 and 3; Pleasants Units 1 and 2 and Willow Island Unit 2. The Notice also alleged PSD violations at the Armstrong, Hatfields Ferry and Mitchell coal fired plants in Pennsylvania and identifies PA DEP as the lead agency regarding those facilities. In September 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a separate Notice of Intent to Sue from the Maryland Attorney General that essentially mirrored the previous Notice. In June 2005, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland filed suit against AE, AE Supply, MP, PE and WP in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania alleging, among other things, that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the CAA and the Pennsylvania Air Pollution Control Act at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry, Armstrong and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania. On January 17, 2006, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General filed an amended complaint. A non jury trial on liability only was held in September 2010. Plaintiffs filed their proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in December 2010, Allegheny made its related filings in February 2011 and plaintiffs filed their responses in April 2011. The parties are awaiting a decision from the District Court, but there is no deadline for that decision and we are unable to predict the outcome or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In September 2007, Allegheny received a NOV from the EPA alleging NSR and PSD violations under the CAA, as well as Pennsylvania and West Virginia state laws at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry and Armstrong plants in Pennsylvania and the coal fired Fort Martin and Willow Island plants in West Virginia. FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CAA matters described above but cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.State Air Quality ComplianceIn early 2006, Maryland passed the Healthy Air Act, which imposes state wide emission caps on SO2 and NOx, requires mercury emission reductions and mandates that Maryland join the RGGI and participate in that coalitions regional efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. On April 20, 2007, Maryland became the tenth state to join the RGGI. The Healthy Air Act provides a conditional exemption for the R. Paul Smith coal fired plant for NOx, SO2 and mercury, based on a 2006 PJM declaration that the plant is vital to reliability in the Baltimore/Washington DC metropolitan area. Pursuant to the legislation, the MDE passed alternate NOx and SO2 limits for R. Paul Smith, which became effective in April 2009. However, R. Paul Smith is still required to meet the Healthy Air Act mercury reductions of 80% which began in 2010. The statutory exemption does not extend to R. Paul Smiths CO2 emissions. Maryland issued final regulations to implement RGGI requirements in February 2008. Fourteen RGGI auctions have been held through the end of calendar year 2011. RGGI allowances are also readily available in the allowance markets, affording another mechanism by which to secure necessary allowances. On March 14, 2011, MDE requested PJM perform an analysis to determine if termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region under current system conditions. On June 30, 2011, PJM notified MDE that termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region absent transmission system upgrades. On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that R. Paul Smith is among nine coal fired plants it intends to retire by September 1, 2012, subject to review of reliability impacts by PJM. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In January 2010, the WVDEP issued a NOV for opacity emissions at the Pleasants coal fired plant. In August 2011, FirstEnergy and WVDEP resolved the NOV through a Consent Order requiring installation of a reagent injection system to reduce opacity by September 2012.94National Ambient Air Quality StandardsThe EPAs CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in its entirety and directed the EPA to redo its analysis from the ground up. In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Courts opinion. The Court ruled in a different case that a cap and trade program similar to CAIR, called the NOx SIP Call, cannot be used to satisfy certain CAA requirements (known as reasonably available control technology) for areas in non attainment under the 8 hour ozone NAAQS. In July 2011, the EPA finalized the CSAPR, to replace CAIR,requiring reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.4 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.2 million tons annually. CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances with some restrictions. On February 21, 2012, the EPA revised certain CASPR state budgets (for Florida, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin and new unit set asides in Arkansas and Texas), certain generating unit allocations (for some units in Alabama, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee) for NOx and SO2 emissions and delayed from 2012 to 2014 certain allowance penalties that could apply with respect to interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances. On December 30, 2011, CSAPR was stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit pending a decision on legal challenges raised in appeals filed by various stakeholders and scheduled to be argued before the Court on April 13, 2012. The Court ordered EPA to continue administration of CAIR until the Court resolves the CSAPR appeals. Depending on the outcome of these proceedings and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, FGCOs and AE Supplys future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergys operations may result.During 2011, FirstEnergy recorded pre tax impairment charges of approximately $6 million ($1 million for FES and $5 million for AE Supply) for NOx emission allowances that were expected to be obsolete after 2011 and approximately $21 million ($18 million for FES and $3 million for AE Supply) for excess SO2 emission allowances in inventory that it expects will not be consumed in the future.Hazardous Air Pollutant EmissionsOn December 21, 2011, the EPA finalized the MATS to establish emission standards for mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals for electric generating units. The MATS establishes emission limits for mercury, PM, and HCL for all existing and new coal fired electric generating units effective in April 2015 and allows averaging of emissions from multiple units located at a single plant. Under the CAA, state permitting authorities can grant an additional compliance year through April 2016, as needed, including instances when necessary to maintain reliability where electric generating units are being closed. In addition, an EPA enforcement policy document contemplates up to an additional year to achieve compliance, through April 2017, under certain circumstances for reliability critical units. On January 26, 2012 and February 8, 2012, FGCO, MP and AE Supply announced the retirement by September 1, 2012 (subject to a reliability review by PJM) of nine coal fired power plants (Albright, Armstrong, Ashtabula, Bay Shore except for generating unit 1, Eastlake, Lake Shore, R. Paul Smith, Rivesville and Willow Island) with a total capacity of 3,349 megawatts (generating, on average, approximately ten percent of the electricity produced by the companies over the past three years) due to MATS and other environmental regulations. In addition, MP will make a filing with the WVPSC to provide them with information regarding the retirement of its plants. Depending on how the MATS are ultimately implemented, FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with MATS may be substantial and other changes to FirstEnergys operations may result. On February 24, 2012, PJM notified FirstEnergy of its preliminary analysis of the reliability impacts that may result from closure of the older competitive coal fired generating units. PJMs preliminary analysis indicated that there would be significant reliability concerns that will need to be addressed. FirstEnergy intends to continue to actively engage in discussions with PJM regarding this notification, including the possible continued operation of certain plants. Climate ChangeThere are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, in June 2009. Certain states, primarily the northeastern states participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs. In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that required FirstEnergy to measure and report GHG emissions commencing in 2010. In December 2009, the EPA released its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act. The EPAs finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years 2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light duty trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles and clarified that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAAs NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year of CO2 equivalents effective January 2, 2011, for existing facilities under the CAAs PSD program.95At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non binding political agreement that recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees Celsius; includes a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establishes the Green Climate Fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate related activities in developing countries. To the extent that they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification.A December 2011 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Durban, Africa, established a negotiating process to develop a new post 2020 climate change protocol, called the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action. This negotiating process contemplates developed countries, as well as developing countries such as China, India, Brazil, and South Africa, to undertake legally binding commitments post 2020. In addition, certain countries agreed to extend the Kyoto Protocol for a second commitment period, commencing in 2013 and expiring in 2018 or 2020. In 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global warming and result in property damages. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to review the decision of the Second Circuit. On June 20, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the Second Circuit but failed to answer the question of the extent to which actions for damages based on GHG emissions may remain viable. The Court remanded to the Second Circuit the issue of whether the CAA preempted state common law nuisance actions. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many of its regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non CO2 emitting gas fired and nuclear generators.Clean Water ActVarious water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations.In 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the CWA for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). In 2007, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated portions of the Section 316(b) performance standards and the EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. In April 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuits opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the CWA authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. On March 28, 2011, the EPA released a new proposed regulation under Section 316(b) of the CWA generally requiring fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. On July 19, 2011, the EPA extended the public comment period for the new proposed Section 316(b) regulation by 30 days but stated its schedule for issuing a final rule remains July 27, 2012. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plants water intake channel to divert fish away from the plants water intake system. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures.In April 2011, the U.S. Attorneys Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is no longer considering prosecution under the CWA and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27, 2007. On August 5, 2011, EPA issued an information request pursuant to Sections 308 and 311 of the CWA for certain information pertaining to the oil spills and spill prevention measures at FirstEnergy facilities. FirstEnergy responded on October 10, 2011. On February 1, 2012, FirstEnergy executed a tolling agreement with the EPA extending the statute of limitations to July 31, 2012. FGCO does not anticipate any losses resulting from this matter to be material. In May 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club filed a CWA citizen suit alleging violations of arsenic limits in the NPDES water discharge permit for the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Station seeking unspecified civil penalties and injunctive relief. The MP filed an answer on July 11, 2011, and a motion to stay the proceedings 96on July 13, 2011. On January 3, 2012, the Court denied MPs motion to dismiss or stay the CWA citizen suit but without prejudice to re filing in the future. MP is currently seeking relief from the arsenic limits through WVDEP agency review. In June 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club served a60 Day Notice of Intent required prior to filing a citizen suit under the CWA for alleged failure to obtain a permit to construct the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Plant. FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CWA matters described above but, except as indicated above, cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.Monongahela River Water QualityIn late 2008, the PA DEP imposed water quality criteria for certain effluents, including TDS and sulfate concentrations in the Monongahela River, on new and modified sources, including the scrubber project at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry Plant. These criteria are reflected in the current PA DEP water discharge permit for that project. AE Supply appealed the PA DEPs permitting decision, which would require it to incur estimated costs in excess of $150 million in order to install technology to meet TDS and sulfate limits in the permit or negatively affect its ability to operate the scrubbers as designed. The permit has been independently appealed by Environmental Integrity Project and Citizens Coal Council, which seeks to impose more stringent technology based effluent limitations. Those same parties have intervened in the appeal filed by AE Supply, and both appeals have been consolidated for discovery purposes. An order has been entered that stays the permit limits that AE Supply has challenged while the appeal is pending. A hearing on the parties appeals was scheduled to begin in September 2011, however the Court stayed all prehearing deadlines on July 15, 2011 to allow the parties additional time to work out a settlement, and has rescheduled a hearing, if necessary, for July 2012. If these settlement discussions are successful, AE Supply anticipates that its obligations will not be material. AE Supply intends to vigorously pursue these issues, but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.In a parallel rulemaking, the PA DEP recommended, and in August 2010, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board issued, a final rule imposing end of pipe TDS effluent limitations. FirstEnergy could incur significant costs for additional control equipment to meet the requirements of this rule, although its provisions do not apply to electric generating units until the end of 2018, and then only if the EPA has not promulgated TDS effluent limitation guidelines applicable to such units.In December 2010, PA DEP submitted its CWA 303(d) list to the EPA with a recommended sulfate impairment designation for an approximately 68 mile stretch of the Monongahela River north of the West Virginia border. In May 2011, the EPA agreed with PA DEPs recommended sulfate impairment designation. PA DEPs goal is to submit a final water quality standards regulation, incorporating the sulfate impairment designation for EPA approval by May, 2013. PA DEP will then need to develop a TMDL limit for the river, a process that will take approximately five years. Based on the stringency of the TMDL, FirstEnergy may incur significant costs to reduce sulfate discharges into the Monongahela River from the coal fired Hatfields Ferry and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania and the coal fired Fort Martin Plant in West Virginia.In October 2009, the WVDEP issued the water discharge permit for the Fort Martin Plant. Similar to the Hatfields Ferry water discharge permit, the Fort Martin permit imposes effluent limitations for TDS and sulfate concentrations. The permit also imposes temperature limitations and other effluent limits for heavy metals that are not contained in the Hatfields Ferry water discharge permit. Concurrent with the issuance of the Fort Martin permit, WVDEP also issued an administrative order that sets deadlines for MP to meet certain of the effluent limits that are effective immediately under the terms of the permit. MP appealed the Fort Martin permit and the administrative order. The appeal included a request to stay certain of the conditions of the permit and order while the appeal is pending, which was granted pending a final decision on appeal and subject to WVDEP moving to dissolve the stay. The appeals have been consolidated. MP moved to dismiss certain of the permit conditions for the failure of the WVDEP to submit those conditions for public review and comment during the permitting process. An agreed upon order that suspends further action on this appeal, pending WVDEPs release for public review and comment on those conditions, was entered on August 11, 2010. The stay remains in effect during that process. The current terms of the Fort Martin permit would require MP to incur significant costs or negatively affect operations at Fort Martin. Preliminary information indicates an initial capital investment in excess of the capital investment that may be needed at Hatfields Ferry in order to install technology to meet the TDS and sulfate limits in the Fort Martin permit, which technology may also meet certain of the other effluent limits in the permit. Additional technology may be needed to meet certain other limits in the permit. MP intends to vigorously pursue these issues but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.Regulation of Waste DisposalFederal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPAs evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste.In December 2009, in an advance notice of public rulemaking, the EPA asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. In May 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional 97regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. Compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on FirstEnergys results of operations and financial condition.LBR CCB impoundment is expected to run out of disposal capacity for disposal of CCBs from the BMP between 2016 and 2018. BMP is pursuing several CCB disposal options.Certain of our utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the Utility Registrants proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $106 million (JCP&L $70 million, TE $1 million, CEI $1 million, FGCO $1 million and FE $33 million) have been accrued through December 31, 2011. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $63 million for environmental remediation of former manufactured gas plants and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non bypassable SBC. On July 11, 2011, FirstEnergy was found to be a potentially responsible party under CERCLA, indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean up costs at certain legacy MGP sites, estimated to total approximately $59 million. FirstEnergy recognized an additional expense of $29 million during the second quarter of 2011; $30 million had previously been reserved prior to 2011. FirstEnergy determined that it is reasonably possible that it or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the possible losses or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time. OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGSPower Outages and Related LitigationIn July 1999, the Mid Atlantic States experienced a severe heat wave, which resulted in power outages throughout the service territories of many electric utilities, including JCP&L. Two class action lawsuits (subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding) were filed in New Jersey Superior Court in July 1999 against JCP&L, GPU and other GPU companies, seeking compensatory and punitive damages due to the outages. After various motions, rulings and appeals, the Plaintiffs claims for consumer fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, strict product liability and punitive damages were dismissed, leaving only the negligence and breach of contract causes of actions. On July 29, 2010, the Appellate Division upheld the trial courts decision decertifying the class. In November 2010, the Supreme Court issued an order denying Plaintiffs motion for leave to appeal. The Courts order effectively ends the attempt to certify the class, and leaves only 9 plaintiffs to pursue their respective individual claims. The matter was referred back to the lower court, which set a trial date for February 13, 2012, for the remaining individual plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have accepted an immaterial amount in final settlement of all matters and the settlement documentation is being finalized for execution by all parties. Nuclear Plant MattersUnder NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had approximately $2 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI 2. As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergys NDT fluctuate based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergys obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and their effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the NDT. On March 28, 2011, FENOC submitted its biennial report on nuclear decommissioning funding to the NRC. This submittal identified a total shortfall in nuclear decommissioning funding for Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry of approximately $92.5 million. By letter dated December 29, 2011, FENOC informed the NRC staff that it had increased the parental guarantee to $95 million. In January 2004, subsidiaries of FirstEnergy filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking damages in connection with costs incurred at the Beaver Valley, Davis Besse and Perry nuclear facilities as a result of the DOEs failure to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998. DOE was required to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (42 USC 10101 et seq) and the contracts entered into by the DOE and the owners and operators of these facilities pursuant to the Act. In January 2012, the applicable FirstEnergy affiliates reached a $48 million settlement of these claims.In August 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. By an order dated April 26, 2011, a NRC ASLB granted a hearing on the Davis Besse license renewal application to a group of petitioners. By this order, the ASLB also admitted two contentions challenging whether FENOCs Environmental Report adequately evaluated (1) a combination of renewable energy sources as alternatives to the renewal of Davis Besses operating license, and (2) severe accident mitigation alternatives at Davis Besse. On May 6, 2011, FENOC filed an appeal with the NRC from the order granting a hearing on the Davis Besse license renewal application. On January 10, 2012, intervenors petitioned the ASLB for a new contention on the cracking of the Davis Besse shield building discussed below. 98On October 1, 2011, Davis Besse was safely shut down for a scheduled outage to install a new reactor vessel head and complete other maintenance activities. The new reactor head, which replaced a head installed in 2002, enhances safety and reliability, and features control rod nozzles made of material less susceptible to cracking. On October 10, 2011, following opening of the building for installation of the new reactor head, a sub surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the shield building. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the shield building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub surface hairline cracks in most of the buildings architectural elements. FENOCs investigation also identified other indications. Included among them were sub surface hairline cracks in the upper portion of the shield building (above elevation 780) and in the vicinity of the main steam line penetrations. A team of industry recognized structural concrete experts and Davis Besse engineers has determined these conditions do not affect the facilitys structural integrity or safety.On December 2, 2011, the NRC issued a CAL which concluded that FENOC provided "reasonable assurance that the shield building remains capable of performing its safety functions." The CAL imposed a number of commitments from FENOC including, submitting a root cause evaluation and corrective actions to the NRC by February 28, 2012, and further evaluations of the shield building. On February 27, 2012, FENOC sent the root cause evaluation to the NRC. Finally, the CAL also stated that the NRC was still evaluating whether the current condition of the shield building conforms to the plants licensing basis. On December 6, 2011, the Davis Besse plant returned to service. By letter dated August 25, 2011, the NRC made a final significance determination (white) associated with a violation that occurred during the retraction of a source range monitor from the Perry reactor vessel. The NRC also placed Perry in the degraded cornerstone column (Column 3) of the NRCs Action Matrix governing the oversight of commercial nuclear reactors. As a result, the NRC staff will conduct several supplemental inspections, culminating in an inspection using Inspection Procedure 95002 to determine if the root cause and contributing causes of risk significant performance issues are understood, the extent of condition has been identified, whether safety culture contributed to the performance issues, and if FENOCs corrective actions are sufficient to address the causes and prevent recurrence.In light of the impacts of the earthquake and tsunami on the reactors in Fukushima, Japan, the NRC conducted inspections of emergency equipment at U.S. reactors. The NRC also established a Near Term Task Force to review its processes and regulations in light of the incident, and, on July 12, 2011, the Task Force issued its report of recommendations for regulatory changes. On October 18, 2011, the NRC approved the Staff recommendations, and directed the Staff to implement its near term recommendations without delay. Ultimately, the adoption of the Staff recommendations on near term actions is likely to result in additional costs to implement plant modifications and upgrades required by the regulatory process over the next several years, which costs are likely to be material.On February 16, 2012, the NRC issued a request for information to the licensed operators of 11 nuclear power plants, including Beaver Valley Power Station Units 1 and 2, with respect to the modeling of fuel performance as it relates to "thermal conductivity degradation," which is the potential in older fuel for reduced capacity to transfer heat that could potentially change its performance during various accident scenarios, including loss of coolant accidents. The request for information indicated that this phenomenon has not been accounted for adequately in performance models for the fuel developed by the fuel manufacturer. The NRC is requesting that FENOC provide an analysis to demonstrate that the NRC regulations are being met. Absent that demonstration, the request indicates that the NRC may consider imposing restrictions on reactor operating limits until the issue is satisfactorily resolved. ICG LitigationOn December 28, 2006, AE Supply and MP filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania against ICG, Anker WV, and Anker Coal. Anker WV entered into a long term Coal Sales Agreement with AE Supply and MP for the supply of coal to the Harrison generating facility. Prior to the time of trial, ICG was dismissed as a defendant by the Court, which issue can be the subject of a future appeal. As a result of defendants past and continued failure to supply the contracted coal, AE Supply and MP have incurred and will continue to incur significant additional costs for purchasing replacement coal. A non jury trial was held from January 10, 2011 through February 1, 2011. At trial, AE Supply and MP presented evidence that they have incurred in excess of $80 million in damages for replacement coal purchased through the end of 2010 and will incur additional damages in excess of $150 million for future shortfalls. Defendants primarily claim that their performance is excused under a force majeure clause in the coal sales agreement and presented evidence at trial that they will continue to not provide the contracted yearly tonnage amounts. On May 2, 2011, the court entered a verdict in favor of AE Supply and MP for $104 million ($90 million in future damages and $14 million for replacement coal / interest). Post trial filings occurred in May 2011, with Oral Argument on June 28, 2011. On August 25, 2011, the Allegheny County Court denied all Motions for Post Trial relief and the May 2, 2011 verdict became final. On August 26, 2011, ICG posted bond and filed a Notice of Appeal. Briefing on the Appeal is concluded with oral argument expected in May or June of 2012. AE Supply and MP intend to vigorously pursue this matter through appeal.Other Legal MattersIn February 2010, a class action lawsuit was filed in Geauga County Court of Common Pleas against FirstEnergy, CEI and OE seeking declaratory judgment and injunctive relief, as well as compensatory, incidental and consequential damages, on behalf of a class of customers related to the reduction of a discount that had previously been in place for residential customers with electric heating, electric water heating, or load management systems. The reduction in the discount was approved by the PUCO. In March 2010, the named defendant companies filed a motion to dismiss the case due to the lack of jurisdiction of the court of common 99pleas. The court granted the motion to dismiss on September 7, 2010. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals of Ohio. On October 21, 2011, the Court of Appeals rendered its decision affirming the dismissal of the Complaint by the Court of Common Pleas on all counts except for one relating to an allegation of fraud. The Companies timely filed a notice of appeal on December 5, 2011 with the Supreme Court of Ohio challenging this one aspect of the Court of Appeals opinion. The Supreme Court of Ohio has not yet acted on the appeal.There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FirstEnergys normal business operations pending against FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described under Note 15, Regulatory Matters.FirstEnergy accrues legal liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. In cases where FirstEnergy determines that it is not probable, but reasonably possible that it has a material obligation, it discloses such obligations and the possible loss or range of loss and if such estimate can be made. If it were ultimately determined that FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on any of the matters referenced above, it could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESFirstEnergy prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Application of these principles often requires a high degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions that affect financial results. FirstEnergys accounting policies require significant judgment regarding estimates and assumptions underling the amounts included in the financial statements. Additional information regarding the application of accounting policies are included in the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue RecognitionFirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class.Regulatory AccountingFirstEnergys regulated distribution and regulated independent transmission segments are subject to regulations that sets the prices (rates) the Utilities, ATSI, TrAIL and PATH are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine are permitted to recover. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities based on anticipated future cash inflows and outflows. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future.Pensions and OPEB AccountingFirstEnergy provides noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels.FirstEnergy provides a portion of non contributory pre retirement basic life insurance for employees who are eligible to retire. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments, are also available upon retirement to certain employees, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy also has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability related benefits.As described in Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, FirstEnergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans effective in 2011. Previously, FirstEnergy recognized the net actuarial gains and losses as a component of AOCI and amortized the gains and losses into income over the remaining service life of affected employees within the related plans, to the extent such gains and losses were outside a corridor of the greater of 10% of the market related value of plan assets or 10% of the plans projected benefit obligation. FirstEnergy has elected to immediately recognize the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. The remaining components of pension and OPEB expense, primarily service, interest, assumed return on assets and prior service costs, will be recorded on a quarterly basis. 100FirstEnergys funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. During 2011, FirstEnergy made pre tax contributions to its qualified pension plans of $372 million. FirstEnergy made an additional $600 million pre tax contribution to its qualified pension plan on January 5, 2012. The underfunded status of FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB plans as of December 31, 2011 was $2.6 billion.As a result of the merger with AE in 2011, FirstEnergy assumed certain pension and OPEB plans. FirstEnergy measured the funded status of the Allegheny pension plans and OPEB plans as of the merger closing date using discount rates of 5.50% and 5.25%, respectively. The fair values of plan assets for Alleghenys pension plans and OPEB plans at the date of the merger were $954 million and $75 million, respectively, and the actuarially determined benefit obligations for such plans as of that date were $1,341 million and $272 million, respectively. The expected returns on plan assets used to calculate net periodic costs for periods in 2011 subsequent to the date of the merger are 8.25% for Alleghenys qualified pension plan and 5.00% for Alleghenys OPEB plans.In selecting an assumed discount rate, FirstEnergy considers currently available rates of return on high quality fixed income investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension and OPEB obligations. The assumed discount rates for pensions were 5.00%, 5.50% and 6.00% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The assumed discount rates for OPEB were 4.75%, 5.00% and 5.75% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.FirstEnergys assumed rate of return on pension plan assets considers historical market returns and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the pension trusts. In 2011, FirstEnergys qualified pensions and OPEB plan assets earned $387 million or 6.05% compared to amounts earned of $492 million, or 10.1% in 2010. The qualified pension and OPEB costs in 2011 and 2010 were computed using an assumed 8.25% and 8.50% rate of return, respectively, on plan assets which generated $486 million and $397 million of expected returns on plan assets, respectively. The expected return of pensions and OPEB assets is based on the trusts asset allocation targets and the historical performance of risk based and fixed income securities. The gains or losses generated as a result of the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets will increase or decrease future net periodic pension and OPEB cost as the difference is recognized annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.Based on discounts rates of 5.00% for pension, 4.75% for OPEB and an estimated return on assets of 7.75%, FirstEnergy expects its 2012 pre tax net periodic postemployment benefit credits (including amounts capitalized) to be approximately $117 million (excluding any actuarial mark to market adjustments that would be recognized in 2012). The following table reflects the portion of pensions and OPEB costs that were charged to expense in the three years ended December 31, 2011. Postemployment Benefits Expense (Credits) 2011 2010 2009 (In millions)Pensions $555 $247 $377OPEB (112) (126) (57)Total $443 $121 $320Health care cost trends continue to increase and will affect future OPEB costs. The 2011 composite health care trend rate assumptions were approximately 7.5 8.5%, compared to 8.0 9.0% in 2010, gradually decreasing to 5% in later years. In determining FirstEnergys trend rate assumptions, included are the specific provisions of FirstEnergys health care plans, the demographics and utilization rates of plan participants, actual cost increases experienced in FirstEnergys health care plans, and projections of future medical trend rates. The effect on the pension and OPEB costs from changes in key assumptions are as follows:Increase in Net Periodic Benefit Costs from Adverse Changes in Key AssumptionsAssumption Adverse Change Pensions OPEB Total (In millions) Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% $236 $23 $259Long term return on assets Decrease by 0.25% $16 $1 $17Health care trend rate Increase by 1.0% N/A $27 $27Emission AllowancesFirstEnergy holds emission allowances for SO2 and NOx in order to comply with programs implemented by the EPA designed to regulate emissions of SO2 and NOx produced by power plants. Emission allowances are either granted by the EPA at zero cost or are purchased at fair value as needed to meet emission requirements. Emission allowances are not purchased with the intent of resale. Emission allowances eligible to be used in the current year are recorded in materials and supplies inventory at their weighted average cost. Emission allowances eligible for use in future years are recorded as other investments. FirstEnergy recognizes emission allowance costs as fuel expense during the periods that emissions are produced by generating facilities. Emission allowances that are not needed to meet emission requirements may be sold and are reported as a reduction to other operating expenses. Obsolete or excess emission allowances follow FirstEnergys inventory practice that requires the emission allowances to be recorded at the lower of weighted average cost or market value. See Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets for further information on impairments of emission allowances.101Long Lived AssetsFirstEnergy reviews long lived assets, including regulatory assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of the long lived asset is measured by comparing the long lived assets carrying value to the sum of undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted future cash flows of the long lived asset, impairment exists and a loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Impairments of long lived assets recognized for the year ended December 31, 2011, are described further in Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets. Asset Retirement ObligationsFirstEnergy recognizes an ARO for the future decommissioning of its nuclear power plants and future remediation of other environmental liabilities associated with all of its long lived assets. The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of FirstEnergys current obligation related to nuclear decommissioning and the retirement or remediation of environmental liabilities of other assets. A fair value measurement inherently involves uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability. FirstEnergy uses an expected cash flow approach to measure the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning and environmental remediation ARO. This approach applies probability weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes. The scenarios consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the nuclear power plants current license, settlement based on an extended license term and expected remediation dates. The fair value of an ARO is recognized in the period in which it is incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long lived asset and are depreciated over the life of the related asset. Income TaxesFirstEnergy records income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes. Investment tax credits, which were deferred when utilized, are being amortized over the recovery period of the related property. Deferred income tax liabilities related to temporary tax and accounting basis differences and tax credit carryforward items are recognized at the statutory income tax rates in effect when the liabilities are expected to be paid. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on income tax rates expected to be in effect when they are settled.FirstEnergy accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in its financial statements. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. The Company recognizes interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions. That amount is computed by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized and the amount previously taken or expected to be taken on the tax return. FirstEnergy includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes.GoodwillIn a business combination, the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. In accordance with accounting standards, if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value (including goodwill), the goodwill is tested for impairment. Impairment is indicated and a loss is recognized if the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value of its goodwill.NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSSee Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies for discussion of new accounting pronouncements.102FIRSTENERGY SOLUTIONS CORP.MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSFES is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES provides energy related products and services to wholesale and retail customers, and through its principal subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, owns or leases, operates and maintains FirstEnergys fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities (excluding the Allegheny facilities), and owns, through its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergys nuclear generation facilities, respectively. FENOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains the nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned by FGCO and NGC, as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of OE and TE in certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with non affiliates, and pursuant to full output, cost of service PSAs.FES revenues are derived from sales to individual retail customers, sales to communities in the form of governmental aggregation programs, and participation in affiliated and non affiliated POLR auctions. FES sales are primarily concentrated in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland. In 2010, FES also supplied the POLR default service requirements of Met Ed and Penelec.The demand for electricity produced and sold by FES, along with the price of that electricity, is principally impacted by conditions in competitive power markets, global economic activity, economic activity in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions and weather conditions.For additional information with respect to FES, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Guarantees and Other Assurances, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies, Outlook and New Accounting Pronouncements.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $290 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily due to higher operating expenses, an inventory reserve adjustment and the effect of mark to market adjustments, partially offset by lower non core asset impairment charges.RevenuesTotal revenues decreased $351 million, or 6%, in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to reduced POLR and structured sales, partially offset by growth in direct and governmental aggregation sales.The net decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $3,785 $2,493 $1,292POLR and Structured Sales 944 2,589 (1,645)Wholesale 457 397 60Transmission 108 77 31RECs 67 74 (7)Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 (85)Other 116 113 3Total Revenues $5,477 $5,828 $(351)MWH Sales by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In thousands) Direct 46,187 28,499 62.1 %Governmental Aggregation 17,722 12,796 38.5 %POLR and Structured Sales 15,340 50,358 (69.5)%Wholesale 2,916 5,391 (45.9)%Total Sales 82,165 97,044 (15.3)%103The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.3 billion resulted from the acquisition of new residential, commercial and industrial customers, as well as new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio and Illinois that provide generation to approximately 1.8 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2011 compared to approximately 1.5 million customers at the end of 2010. Increases in direct sales volume were partially offset by lower unit prices. The decrease in POLR and structured sales revenues of $1.6 billion was due to lower sales volumes to Met Ed, Penelec and the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales to non affiliates and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The decline in POLR sales reflects our focus on more profitable sales channels.Wholesale revenues increased $60 million due to higher wholesale prices partially offset by decreased volumes. The lower sales volumes were the result of decreased short term (net hourly positions) transactions in MISO, partially offset by increased short term transactions in PJM. In addition, capacity revenues earned by units that moved to PJM from MISO were partially offset by losses on financially settled sales contracts.The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,034Change in prices (75) 959Governmental Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 319Change in prices 14 333Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $1,292Source of Change in POLR and Structured Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions) Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,800)Change in prices 155 $(1,645) Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions) Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(182)Change in prices 242 $60Transmission revenues increased $31 million due primarily to higher congestion revenue. Revenues derived from the sale of RECs decreased $7 million in 2011 compared to 2010.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $34 million in 2011 compared with the 2010.104The following table summarizes the factors contributing to the changes in fuel and purchased power costs in 2011 compared with 2010:Source of Change in Fuel and Purchased Power Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Fossil Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs $26Change due to volume consumed (107) (81) Nuclear Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs 28Change due to volume consumed (6) 22 Non affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to increased unit costs 416Change due to volume purchased (623) (207) Affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to decreased unit costs (84)Change due to volume purchased (45) (129)Net Decrease in Fuel and Purchased Power Costs $(395)Total fuel costs decreased by $59 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010, as a result of reduced generation at the fossil units, partially offset by higher fossil unit costs. Fossil unit costs increased primarily due to increased coal transportation costs. Nuclear fuel expenses increased primarily due to higher unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2010.Non affiliated purchased power costs decreased by $217 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010, due to lower volumes purchased, partially offset by higher unit costs. The decrease in volume relates to the absence in 2011 of a 1,300 MW third party contract associated with serving Met Ed and Penelec that FES no longer has the requirement to serve. Affiliated purchased power costs decreased by $119 million in 2011, compared to the same period of 2010, due to lower unit costs and decreased volumes purchased.Other operating expenses increased by $400 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010 due to the following:Transmission expenses increased by $249 million due primarily to increases in congestion, network and line loss expenses.Nuclear operating costs increased $53 million primarily due to Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 refueling outages in 2011. While Davis Besse had a refueling outage in 2010 and an outage in 2011 to replace the reactor vessel head, the work performed on both outages was largely capital related.Fossil operating costs increased $36 million due primarily to higher labor, contractor and material costs resulting from an increase in planned and unplanned outages, which were partially offset by reduced losses from the sale of excess coal.A $54 million provision for excess and obsolete material related to revised inventory practices adopted in connection with the Allegheny merger.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges increased $64 million as a result of higher net actuarial losses.Impairment charges on long lived assets decreased by $94 million compared to 2010. The 2011 charges were due to the pending shutdown of four coal fired generating units owned by FGCO; charges in 2010 related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units.General taxes increased by $30 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.Provision for depreciation increased by $29 million due to the AQC projects being placed in service at the end of 2010.105Other ExpenseTotal other expense increased by $41 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to a $57 million decrease in capitalized interest associated with the completion of the Sammis AQC project in 2010, partially offset by lower interest expense ($5 million). Market Risk InformationFES uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskFES is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. FES uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FES relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FES uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (15) 11 20 8 24Prices based on models (6) (2) (8) (16)Total $(21) $11 $20 $8 $(2) $(8) $8(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.FES performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $7 million during the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskFES exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for FES investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $1,025 $1,025 $1,025Average interest rate 6.5% 6.5% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $68 $75 $99 $450 $26 $2,445 $3,163 $3,419Average interest rate 9.0% 9.0% 7.3% 5.1% 7.7% 5.1% 5.4% Variable rate $512 $512 $512Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% 106Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy NGCs nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in FESs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $1,025 million, $124 million and $132 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding ($58) million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $12 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. NGC recognized in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of FESs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. FES evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. FES may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. FES monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.Wholesale Credit RiskFES measures wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for derivatives in power, natural gas, coal and emission allowances, adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where FES has a legally enforceable right of setoff. FES monitors and manages the credit risk of wholesale marketing, risk management and energy transacting operation through credit policies and procedures, which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral and the use of master netting agreements. FES aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (S&P).Retail Credit RiskFES is exposed to retail credit risk through competitive electricity activities, which serve residential, commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on contractual obligations or fail to pay for service rendered. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of customer accounts receivable balances, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve customers. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit approval policies, monitoring customer exposures and the use of credit mitigation measures such as deposits in the form of letters of credit, cash or prepayment arrangements. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, FESs retail credit risk may be adversely impacted.107OHIO EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio and, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Penn, 1,100 square miles in western Pennsylvania. OE and Penn conduct business in portions of Ohio and Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric distribution services and procurement of generation services for those franchise customers electing to retain them as their power supplier. The areas served by OE and Penn have populations of approximately 2.3 million and 0.4 million, respectively.For additional information with respect to OE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $27 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease primarily resulted from lower revenues and higher other operating expenses, partially offset by lower purchased power costs. RevenuesRevenues decreased by $203 million, or 11%, in 2011 compared with 2010 due to lower retail generation revenues, partially offset by higher distribution and wholesale generation revenues.Distribution revenues increased by $69 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to increased MWH deliveries and higher average prices in all customer classes. The higher MWH deliveries in the residential class were driven primarily by increased load growth partially offset by lower weather related usage. The increase in distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers was primarily due to recovering economic conditions in OEs and Penns service territories. Higher average prices in all customer classes were principally due to the recovery of deferred distribution costs.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase Residential 0.3%Commercial 0.7%Industrial 5.4%Increase in Distribution Deliveries 2.0%Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions)Residential $26Commercial 17Industrial 26Increase in Distribution Revenues $69Retail generation revenues decreased by $277 million primarily due to a decrease in MWH sales from increased customer shopping and lower average prices in all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. OE and Penn defer the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Lower MWH sales were primarily the result of increased customer shopping in 2011. The increases in shopping by residential, commercial and industrial customers were 18%, 11% and 7%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010.108Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (28.8)%Commercial (34.0)%Industrial (22.6)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (28.3)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(166)Commercial (74)Industrial (37)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(277)Wholesale generation revenues increased by $12 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to higher revenues from sales to NGC from OEs leasehold interests in Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $175 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(279)Other operating expenses 109Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 19Provision for depreciation 2Amortization of regulatory assets, net (33)General taxes 7Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(175)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced generation sales requirements coupled with lower unit costs. The increase in other operating expenses in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010 was principally due to expenses associated with nuclear refueling outages at OEs leased Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2 that were absent in 2010. Decreased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges are the result of lower net actuarial losses in 2011 compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to higher deferred residential generation credits in 2011. General taxes increased as a result of higher property taxes.Interest Rate RiskOEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for OEs investment portfolio and debt obligations.109Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $31 $36 $42 $37 $13 $138 $297 $318Average interest rate 8.7% 8.8% 8.8% 8.9% 8.9% 4.4% 6.8% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $250 $757 $1,157 $1,434Average interest rate 5.5% 6.4% 7.3% 6.9% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in OEs NDT are fixed income and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $134 million and $1 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. OE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in its NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of OEs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $4 million was contributed to OEs NDT to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE continues as a lessee. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. OE evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. OE may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. OE monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.110THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSCEI is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. CEI provides regulated electric distribution services in an area of 1,600 square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.7 million. CEI also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain them as their power supplier.For additional information with respect to CEI, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, CEI filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by CEI with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsEarnings available to parent decreased by $5 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to decreased revenues, partially offset by lower purchased power costs and amortization of regulatory assets. RevenuesRevenues decreased $345 million, or 28%, in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues.Distribution revenues decreased $78 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower average unit prices in all customer classes offset by increased MWH deliveries to the industrial sector. The lower average unit prices were the result of the absence of transition charges in 2011. Lower residential and commercial deliveries resulted from decreased weather related usage in 2011. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in CEIs service territory.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential (0.3)%Commercial (0.4)%Industrial 1.4 %Net Increase in Distribution Deliveries 0.2 %Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(12)Commercial (7)Industrial (59)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(78)Retail generation revenues decreased $265 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to lower MWH sales to all customer classes that resulted from increased customer shopping and lower average unit prices for the commercial and residential customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. CEI defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Lower MWH sales were the result of increased shopping by residential, commercial and industrial customers of 15%, 8% and 36%, respectively, in 2011 compared to 2010. Lower average unit prices in the residential customer class were primarily due to the lower auction price in 2011.111Changes in retail generation sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (38.8)%Commercial (37.6)%Industrial (71.3)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (52.2)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(88)Commercial (77)Industrial (100)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(265)Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $336 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(254)Other operating costs 15Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 8Provision for depreciation 1Amortization of regulatory assets, net (117)General taxes 11Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(336)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 primarily due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced sales requirements as a result of increased customer shopping. Other operating expenses increased due to 2011 inventory valuation adjustments. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to the completion of transition cost recovery at the end of 2010 and higher deferred purchased power costs in 2011, partially offset by increased recovery of deferred distribution costs and the absence in 2011 of renewable energy credit expenses that were deferred in 2010. General taxes increased due to increased property taxes as compared to 2010.Interest Rate RiskCEIs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for CEIs investment portfolio and debt obligations.112Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $66 $75 $80 $50 $16 $287 $315Average interest rate 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 8.0% 7.7% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $325 $26 $24 $6 $1,450 $1,831 $2,162Average interest rate 5.8% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 6.8% 6.7% Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. CEI evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. CEI may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. CEI monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.113THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSTE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. TE provides regulated electric distribution services in an area of 2,300 square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.7 million. TE also provides generation services to those customers electing to retain them as their power supplier.For additional information with respect to TE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, TE filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by TE with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsEarnings available to parent decreased by $2 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily from lower revenues and higher other operating expenses, partially offset by lower purchased power costs from affiliates. RevenuesRevenues decreased $40 million, or 8%, in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower retail generation sales, partially offset by an increase in distribution revenues.Distribution revenues increased $28 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher MWH deliveries to residential and industrial customers and higher unit prices to all customer classes related to increased energy efficiency rider rates, partially offset by lower MWH deliveries to commercial customers. Higher MWH deliveries to residential customers reflected increased load growth slightly offset by lower weather related usage that also drove lower deliveries to commercial customers. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in TEs service territory. Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential 0.3 %Commercial (1.9)%Industrial 2.4 %Net Increase in Distribution Deliveries 1.0 %Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions)Residential $11Commercial 9Industrial 8Increase in Distribution Revenues $28Retail generation revenues decreased $79 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower MWH sales from increased customer shopping and lower unit prices to all customer classes. The increases in shopping for residential, commercial and industrial customers were 13%, 9%, and 4%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. TE defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. 114Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (27.9)%Commercial (39.7)%Industrial (10.1)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (20.5)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(28)Commercial (21)Industrial (30)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(79)Wholesale revenues increased $12 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher revenues from sales to NGC from TEs leasehold interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $37 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(76)Other operating expenses 31Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 6General taxes 2Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(37)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 compared to 2010, due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced generation sales requirements in 2011 coupled with lower unit costs. The increase in other operating costs in 2011 was primarily due to expenses associated with the 2011 nuclear refueling outage at the leased Beaver Valley Unit 2 and an Ohio Supreme Court decision rendered in the second quarter of 2011 favoring a large industrial customer, both of which were absent in 2010. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010.Other ExpenseOther expense decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, due to a decrease in miscellaneous expense partially offset by lower investment income. The change in miscellaneous expense was due to decreased expenses associated with the accounts receivable securitization with Centerior Funding Corp., which was terminated in 2011 Investment income decreased principally due to lower NDT investment income. Interest Rate RiskTEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for TEs investment portfolio and debt obligations.115Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $25 $26 $24 $6 $53 $134 $145Average interest rate 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 4.6% 6.4% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $600 $600 $741Average interest rate 6.7% 6.7% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in TEs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $53 million, $27 million and $3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. TE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of TEs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million was contributed to TEs NDT to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which TE continues as a lessee. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. TE evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. TE may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. TE monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.116JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSJCP&L is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. JCP&L conducts business in New Jersey, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.7 million. JCP&L also has an ownership interest in a hydroelectric generating facility. In addition, JCP&L also procures generation services for franchise customers electing to retain them as their power supplier. JCP&L procures electric supply to serve its BGS customers through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU.For additional information with respect to JCP&L, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $39 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues, partially offset by reductions in purchased power costs and amortization of regulatory assets.RevenuesRevenues decreased by $532 million, or 18%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in revenues was due to lower distribution, retail generation and wholesale generation revenues, partially offset by an increase in other revenues.Distribution revenues decreased by $187 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to an NJBPU approved rate adjustment that became effective March 1, 2011 for all customer classes, and lower MWH deliveries. The lower MWH deliveries to residential customers were influenced by decreased weather related usage in 2011. Lower distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers reflected the impact of economic conditions in JCP&Ls service territory.Decreases in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Decrease Residential (3.0)%Commercial (2.9)%Industrial (3.0)%Decrease in Distribution Deliveries (2.9)%Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(90)Commercial (79)Industrial (18)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(187)Retail generation revenues decreased by $301 million due to lower generation MWH sales in all customer classes primarily due to an increase in customer shopping. The increases in shopping for residential, commercial and industrial customers were 10%, 9% and 5%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. JCP&L defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to earnings.117Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (13.0)%Commercial (23.0)%Industrial (29.0)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (16.3)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(181)Commercial (108)Industrial (12)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(301)Wholesale generation revenues decreased by $54 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to a decrease in PJM spot market energy sales.Other revenues increased by $10 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to increases in PJM network transmission revenues and transition bond revenues from increased rates.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $461 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(354)Other operating expenses 48Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 34Provision for depreciation 22Amortization of regulatory assets, net (213)General taxes 2Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(461)Purchased power costs decreased by $354 million in 2011 due to lower requirements from reduced retail generation sales. Other operating expenses increased by $48 million in 2011 principally from storm restoration maintenance costs. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Amortization of regulatory assets, net, decreased by $213 million due to reduced cost recovery under the NJBPU approved NUG tariffs that became effective March 1, 2011 and higher deferred storm restoration costs, partially offset by a charge for nonrecoverable NUG costs.Market Risk InformationJCP&L uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskJCP&L is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. JCP&L uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, JCP&L relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future 118regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. JCP&L uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (52) (43) (36) (14) (145)Prices based on models 1 1 2Total(3) $(52) $(43) $(36) $(14) $1 $1 $(143)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(143) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.JCP&L performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on JCP&Ls net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskJCP&Ls exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for JCP&Ls investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $363 $363 $363Average interest rate 5.2% 5.2% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $34 $36 $38 $41 $343 $1,285 $1,777 $2,080Average interest rate 5.7% 5.7% 5.9% 6.0% 5.7% 6.2% 6.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in JCP&Ls NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $147 million, $30 million and $14 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. JCP&Ls NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of JCP&Ls NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million was contributed to JCP&Ls NDT to comply with regulatory requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. JCP&L evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. JCP&L may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. JCP&L monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.119METROPOLITAN EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSMet Ed is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Met Ed provides regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 3,300 square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.2 million. Met Ed also procures generation service for those franchise customers who have elected to retain them as their power supplier. Met Ed procures power under its DSP, in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions.For additional information with respect to Met Ed, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, Met Ed filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by Met Ed with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsNet income increased by $8 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase was primarily due to decreased purchased power costs, other operating expenses and amortization of net regulatory assets partially offset by decreased revenues.RevenuesRevenue decreased $606 million, or 33%, in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting lower distribution, retail generation, wholesale generation and transmission revenues.Distribution revenues decreased $336 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower rates resulting from the DSP that began in 2011 that eliminated the transmission component from the distribution rates. The lower MWH deliveries to residential and commercial customers were influenced by decreased weather related usage in 2011. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in Met Eds service territory.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential (1.4)%Commercial (2.0)%Industrial 2.2 %Net Decrease in Distribution Deliveries (0.2)%Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(133)Commercial (90)Industrial (113)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(336)In 2011, retail generation revenues decreased $52 million due to lower MWH sales to all customer classes resulting from increased customer shopping. The impact of increased customer shopping is partially offset by higher generation rates that reflect the inclusion of transmission services under the DSP, effective January 1, 2011, for all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. In 2011, Met Ed began deferring the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings.120Changes in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales DecreaseResidential (3.8)%Commercial (49.1)%Industrial (91.8)%Net Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (45.7)%Retail Generation Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Residential $166Commercial (24)Industrial (194)Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(52)Wholesale revenues decreased $210 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily reflecting lower RPM revenues for Met Ed in the PJM market.Transmission revenues decreased $9 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the termination of Met Eds TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. Met Ed deferred the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to earnings in the period.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $608 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(328)Other operating costs (230)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 26Provision for depreciation 5Amortization of regulatory assets, net (68)General taxes (13)Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(608)Purchased power costs decreased $328 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to a decrease in MWH purchased to source generation sales requirements, partially offset by higher unit costs. Decreased power purchased from affiliates reflects the increase in customer shopping described above and the termination of Met Eds partial requirements PSA with FES at the end of 2010. Other operating costs decreased $230 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses that are now included in the cost of purchased power (see reference to deferral accounting above), partially offset by increased costs for energy efficiency programs. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased $68 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the termination of transmission and transition tariff riders at the end of 2010. General taxes decreased by $13 million in 2011 primarily due to lower gross receipts taxes.Other ExpenseInterest income decreased by $3 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to reduced CTC stranded asset balances.Market Risk InformationMet Ed uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.121Commodity Price RiskMet Ed is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. Met Ed uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Met Ed relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Met Ed uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (62) (7) (6) (5) (80)Prices based on models 8 42 50Total(3) $(62) $(7) $(6) $(5) $8 $42 $(30)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(30) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.Met Ed performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Met Eds net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskMet Eds exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Met Eds investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $234 $234 $234Average interest rate 3.3% 3.3% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $250 $300 $700 $796Average interest rate 5.0% 4.9% 7.7% 6.1% Variable rate $29 $29 $29Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Met Eds NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $234 million, $51 million and $23 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $5 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. Met Eds NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline 122in the value of Met Eds NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Met Ed evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. Met Ed may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. Met Ed monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.123PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSPenelec is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Penelec provides regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 17,600 square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.3 million. Penelec, as lessee of the property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, serves customers in the Waverly, New York vicinity. Penelec also procures generation service for those franchise customers who have elected to retain them as their power supplier. Penelec procures power under its DSP, in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions.For additional information with respect to Penelec, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, Penelec filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by Penelec with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsNet income was unchanged in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower purchased power costs, other operating expenses and income taxes, partially offset by lower revenues and higher amortization of regulatory assets.RevenuesRevenues decreased by $459 million, or 30%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower distribution, retail generation, wholesale generation and transmission revenues.Distribution revenues decreased by $93 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to lower rates resulting from the DSP, which eliminated the transmission component from the distribution rate beginning in 2011, partially offset by a PPUC approved rate adjustment for NUG costs. Lower MWH deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflected decreased weather related usage compared to 2010. Higher MWH deliveries to industrial customers were primarily due to recovering economic conditions in Penelecs service territory, compared to 2010. Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase(Decrease) Residential (2.2)%Commercial (3.7)%Industrial 4.5 %Net Decrease in Distribution Deliveries 0.1 %Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(35)Commercial (31)Industrial (27)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(93)Retail generation revenues decreased by $218 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower MWH sales in all customer classes resulting from increased customer shopping. The impact of customer shopping was partially offset by higher generation rates that reflect the inclusion of transmission services under the DSP, effective January 1, 2011, for all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. In 2011, Penelec began deferring the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings.124Changes in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (8.5)%Commercial (53.6)%Industrial (92.5)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (53.1)%Retail Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Residential $87Commercial (78)Industrial (227)Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(218)Wholesale generation revenues decreased by $205 million in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting lower RPM revenues for Penelec in the PJM market.Transmission revenues decreased by $7 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to the termination of Penelecs TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. Penelec deferred the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to earnings for the period.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $446 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs (467)Other operating costs (99)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 33Provision for depreciation (3)Amortization of regulatory assets, net 97General taxes (7)Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(446)Purchased power costs decreased by $467 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to a decrease in MWH purchased to source generation sales requirements. Decreased power purchased from affiliates resulted from reduced requirements due to the increase in customer shopping described above and the termination of Penelecs partial requirements PSA with FES at the end of 2010. Other operating costs decreased by $99 million in 2011 due to lower transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses that are now included in the cost of purchased power (see reference to deferral accounting above). Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets increased by $97 million in 2011 primarily due to reduced NUG deferrals as a result of the PPUC approved increase in Penelecs NUG cost recovery rider in January 2011.Other ExpensesOther expenses decreased by $3 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower income from jobbing and contracting work and lower capitalized interest.Market Risk InformationPenelec uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.125Commodity Price RiskPenelec is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. Penelec uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Penelec relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Penelec uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (85) (12) (10) (11) (118)Prices based on models 1 (3) (2)Total(3) $(85) $(12) $(10) $(11) $1 $(3) $(120)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(120) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.Penelec performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Penelecs net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskPenelecs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Penelecs investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $195 $195 $195Average interest rate 3.8% 3.8% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $925 $1,075 $1,206Average interest rate 5.1% 5.9% 5.8% Variable rate $45 $45 $45Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Penelecs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $106 million, $26 million and $33 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $1 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. Penelecs NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline 126in the value of Penelecs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements.Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Penelec evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. Penelec may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. Penelec monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.127ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThe information required by ITEM 7A relating to market risk is set forth in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.128
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF REGISTRANT AND SUBSIDIARIESForward Looking Statements: This Form 10 K includes forward looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.Actual results may differ materially due to: The speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry.The impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates.The status of the PATH project in light of PJMs direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures.Business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM.Economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins.Changes in markets for energy services.Changing energy and commodity market prices and availability.Financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs.The continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs.Operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated.Other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPAs MATS rules.The uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with litigation, including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units).The uncertainty associated with the companys plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJMs review of the companys plans. Adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant).Issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis Besse.Adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders.The continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity.Replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged.The ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates.Changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates.The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals.FirstEnergys ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins.The ability to experience growth in the distribution business.The changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated.The impact of changes to material accounting policies.The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs of financings and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees.The continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries.Issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business.Issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and AE and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations 45including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies .The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors.Dividends declared from time to time on FEs common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FEs Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information regarding risks that may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.46FIRSTENERGY CORP.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OFFINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOVERVIEWEarnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. in 2011 were $885 million, or $2.22 per basic share of common stock ($2.21 diluted), compared with $742 million, or $2.44 per basic share of common stock ($2.42 diluted), in 2010 and $872 million, or $2.87 per basic share ($2.85 diluted), in 2009.Change in Earnings Per Basic Share From Prior Year 2011 2010 Earnings Per Basic Share Prior Year $2.44 $2.87Segment operating results(1) Regulated Distribution 0.05 0.04Competitive Energy Services (0.15) 0.10Regulated Independent Transmission (0.06) 0.12Non core asset sales/impairments 0.67 (0.37)Generating plant impairments 0.08 (0.78)Trust securities impairments 0.02 0.03Litigation resolution (0.07) 0.01Regulatory charges 0.03 0.45Mark to market adjustments Pension and OPEB actuarial assumptions (0.47) 0.30All other 0.02 0.35Organizational restructuring 2009 0.14Debt redemption premiums (0.01) 0.32Merger related costs (0.29) (0.16)Merger Accounting commodity contracts (0.26) Net merger accretion(1)(2)(3) 0.54 Income tax resolution / retiree drug subsidy (0.03) (0.57)Settlement of uncertain tax positions (0.05) (0.11)Depreciation (0.09) (0.02)Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized (0.14) 0.04Investment income (0.03) (0.19)Change in effective tax rate 0.04 (0.17)Other (0.02) 0.04Earnings Per Basic Share $2.22 $2.44(1)Excludes amounts that are shown separately(2)Includes dilutive effect of shares issued in connection with the Allegheny merger(3)Includes 10 months of Allegheny results in 2011MergerOn February 25, 2011, the merger between FirstEnergy and AE closed. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger between FirstEnergy, Merger Sub and AE, Merger Sub merged with and into AE with AE continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. As part of the merger, AE shareholders received 0.667 of a share of FirstEnergy common stock for each AE share outstanding as of the merger completion date and all outstanding AE equity based employee compensation awards were converted into FirstEnergy equity based awards on the same basis.In connection with the merger, FirstEnergy recorded merger transaction costs of approximately $91 million ($73 million net of tax and $65 million ($47 million net of tax) during 2011 and 2010, respectively. These costs are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2011, $93 million of pre tax merger integration costs and $36 million of pre tax charges from merger settlements approved by regulatory agencies were recognized. Charges resulting from merger settlements are not expected to be material in future periods.FirstEnergy exceeded its 2011 merger benefits target. During 2011, FirstEnergy completed savings initiatives that allowed the 47company to capture pre tax annualized merger benefits of approximately $267 million compared to the annual target of $210 million.Operational MattersPJM RTO IntegrationOn June 1, 2011, ATSI successfully integrated into PJM. With this transition, all of FirstEnergys generation, transmission and distribution facilities are now in PJM. Transmission ExpansionOn May 19, 2011, TrAILs 500 kV transmission line, spanning more than 150 miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to northern Virginia, was completed and energized.Nuclear GenerationOn April 11, 2011, Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 2 returned to service following a March 7, 2011 shutdown for refueling and maintenance. During the outage, 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies were exchanged, safety inspections were conducted, and numerous maintenance and improvement projects were completed that we believe will result in continued safe and reliable operations. On June 7, 2011, the Perry Nuclear Power Plant returned to service following a scheduled shutdown for refueling and maintenance which began on April 18, 2011. During the outage, 248 of the 748 fuel assemblies were replaced and safety inspections were successfully conducted. Additionally, numerous preventative maintenance activities and improvement projects were completed that we believe will result in continued safe and reliable operations, including replacement of several control rod blades, rewind of the generator, and routine work on more than 150 valves, pumps and motors. On October 2, 2011, FENOC completed the controlled shutdown of the Perry Plant due to the loss of a startup transformer. Subsequently, a spare replacement transformer from Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station was transported to the Perry Plant for modification and installation. The new transformer was installed in 2011.During 2011, FENOC broke ground for new Emergency Operations Facilities at all three of its nuclear sites. Each of the 12,000 square foot facilities will house activities related to maintaining public health and safety during the unlikely event of an emergency at the plant and allow for improved coordination between the plant, state and local emergency management agencies. On October 1, 2011, the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station began a scheduled outage for replacement of its reactor vessel head and other scheduled maintenance. On October 10, 2011, following opening of the building for installation of the new reactor head, a sub surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the shield building. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the shield building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub surface hairline cracks in most of the buildings architectural elements. FENOCs investigation also identified other indications of cracking. Included among them were sub surface hairline cracks in the upper portion of the shield building (above 780 feet of elevation) and in the vicinity of the main steam line penetrations. A team of industry recognized structural concrete experts and Davis Besse engineers have determined these conditions do not affect the facilitys structural integrity or safety. On February 27, 2012, FENOC sent a root cause evaluation report to the NRC. On December 6, 2011, the Davis Besse Nuclear Power Station returned to service. The new reactor vessel head features control rod nozzles made of an enhanced material and further promotes safe and reliable operation of the plant.Coal and Gas Fired GenerationOn July 28, 2011, FirstEnergy completed the sale of the Fremont Energy Center to American Municipal Power, Inc. for $510 million based on 685 MW of output. The purchase price can be incrementally increased, not to exceed an additional $16 million, to reflect additional transmission export capacity up to 707 MW.On October 18, 2011, FirstEnergy sold its Richland (432 MW) and Stryker (18 MW) Peaking Facilities for approximately $80 million. The proceeds from the sale of these non core assets reduced FirstEnergys net debt position. On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that its unregulated generation subsidiaries will retire six older coal fired plants located in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland. On February 8, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that MP will retire three older coal fired plants located in West Virginia. All of these generating plants will be closed by September 1, 2012. The decision to close the plants is the result of a comprehensive review of FirstEnergys coal fired generating facilities in light of the MATS rules that were recently finalized and other environmental regulations. These closures are subject to review for reliability impacts by PJM. In addition, MP will make a filing with the WVPSC to provide them with information regarding the retirement of its plants. As a result of this decision, impairment charges associated with these assets were recognized by FirstEnergy, aggregating approximately $334 million ($207 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011, including approximately $243 million ($152 million after tax) which is applicable to FES. See Note 11, Impairment of Long lived Assets, for further information on the retirement of these plants.48The total capacity of the competitive plants that will be retired is approximately 2,700 MW and the total capacity of the three regulated plants that will be retired is approximately 660 MW. Recently, these plants served mostly as peaking or intermediate facilities, generating, on average, approximately 10 percent of the electricity produced by FirstEnergys generation subsidiaries over the past three years.On February 24, 2012, PJM notified FirstEnergy of its preliminary analysis of the reliability impacts that may result from closure of the older competitive coal fired generating units. PJMs preliminary analysis indicated that there would be significant reliability concerns that will need to be addressed. FirstEnergy intends to continue to actively engage in discussions with PJM regarding this notification, including the possible continued operation of certain plants. Signal PeakOn October 18, 2011, FirstEnergy announced that Gunvor Group, Ltd. purchased a one third interest in Global Holding, a joint venture that owns the Signal Peak coal mine in Montana and the related Global Rail coal transportation operations. The sale strengthened FirstEnergys balance sheet in the following ways:Proceeds of $257.5 million reduced FirstEnergys net debt position;De consolidation of Signal Peak resulted in the reduction of indebtedness by $360 million and an increase to equity of $50 million on FirstEnergys Consolidated Balance Sheet; andThe gain on sale and revaluation of FirstEnergys remaining ownership stake increased equity by an additional $370 million.Following the sale, FirstEnergy, through its wholly owned subsidiary, FEV, has a one third interest in Global Holding. FGCO has a long term coal supply agreement with Signal Peak for up to 10 million tons per year. FGCO has re evaluated its coal usage under that agreement and has determined to resell its coal purchased from Signal Peak to an affiliate of Global Holding; provided, however, that such affiliate may require FGCO to repurchase up to 2 million tons annually from the existing underground mines, and, if Signal Peak develops surface mines, it could require FGCO to purchase an additional 2 million tons per year. FirstEnergy remains a 100% guarantor on Signal Peaks and Global Rails $350 million senior secured credit facility. See Guarantees and Other Assurances below. FirstEnergy Utilities Respond to Unprecedented StormsIn late August 2011, FirstEnergy experienced unprecedented damage in its service territory as a result of Hurricane Irene. Approximately 1.1 million customers were affected by outages in areas served by JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec and PE. Approximately 5,000 FirstEnergy employees and 2,800 contractors, including utility line workers from other utilities, assisted with the restoration work. The cost of the storm totaled approximately $89 million, of which $4 million reduced pre tax income in 2011 and $85 million was capitalized or deferred for future recovery from customers.On October 29, 2011, FirstEnergy was affected by a snowstorm that paralyzed much of the East Coast, including our eastern service areas. Approximately 820,000 customers of JCP&L, Met Ed, PE, MP, Penelec and WP were affected by the storm that brought down more than 800 poles and approximately 10,000 spans of wire. More than 9,600 employees, contractors and other utilities crews helped in the restoration. The pre tax total cost of the storm was approximately $125 million, of which $6 million reduced pre tax income in 2011 and $119 million was capitalized or deferred for future recovery from customers. Financial MattersDuring 2011, FirstEnergy redeemed or repurchased approximately $520.4 million principal amount of PCRBs, as summarized in the following table. Approximately $28.5 million of FGCO FMBs and $98.9 million of NGC FMBs associated with the PCRBs were returned for cancellation by the associated LOC providers. SubsidiariesAmount (In millions) AE Supply$53.0(1) FGCO$198.2(2) NGC$213.5(2) MP$70.2(1) (1) Includes $14.4 million of PCRBs redeemed for which MP and AE Supply are co obligors. (2) Subject to market conditions, these PCRBs are being held for future remarketing. On May 4, 2011, AE terminated its $250 million credit facility due to other available funding sources following completion of the merger with FirstEnergy.On June 17, 2011, FirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries entered into two 5 year revolving credit facilities with a total borrowing capacity of $4.5 billion. These facilities consist of a $2 billion revolving credit facility for FirstEnergy and its regulated utility subsidiaries 49and a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility for FES and AE Supply. Prior separate facilities ($2.75 billion at FirstEnergy, $1 billion at AE Supply, $110 million at MP, $150 million at PE and $200 million at WP) were terminated.During the third quarter of 2011, FirstEnergy received approximately $130 million from assigning a substantially below market, long term fossil fuel contract to a third party. As a result, FirstEnergy entered into a new long term contract with another supplier for replacement fuel based on current market prices. The new contract runs for nine years, which is the remaining term of the assigned contract. The transaction reduced fuel costs during the quarter by approximately $123 million.TrAILs primary investment, the Trans Allegheny Interstate Line (a 500 kV transmission project that extends from Southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to Northern Virginia), was completed in May 2011.On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced a change to its method for accounting for pensions and OPEB effective in 2011 (see Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We also disclosed that we made a $600 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan earlier that month.Regulatory Matters Met Ed and Penelec Transition to Competitive MarketsThe Pennsylvania Companies began the move to competitive markets with the expiration of the rate caps on Met Eds and Penelecs retail generation rates on December 31, 2010. Beginning in 2011, Met Ed and Penelec obtained their power supply from the competitive wholesale market and fully recover their generation costs through retail rates. The Ohio Companies, Penn, WP and JCP&L previously transitioned to competitive generation markets.Marginal transmission loss recoveryOn March 3, 2010, the PPUC issued an order denying Met Ed and Penelec the ability to recover marginal transmission losses through the transmission service charge riders in their respective tariffs which applies to the periods including June 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. Subsequently, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth Court) appealing the PPUCs order. On June 14, 2011, the Commonwealth Court affirmed the PPUCs decision that marginal transmission losses are not recoverable as transmission costs. On July 13, 2011, Met Ed and Penelec filed a federal complaint with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and on the following day, filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Met Ed and Penelec believe the Commonwealth Courts decision contradicts federal law and is inconsistent with prior PPUC and court decisions and therefore expect to fully recover the related regulatory assets ($189 million for Met Ed and $65 million for Penelec). In January 2011 and continuing for 29 months, pursuant to a related PPUC order, Met Ed and Penelec began crediting customers for the amounts at issue pending the outcome of court appeals. Ohio Energy Efficiency and Peak Demand Reduction Portfolio PlanOn March 23, 2011, the PUCO approved the three year Energy Efficiency and Demand Reduction portfolio plan for the Ohio Companies. The Ohio Companies plan was developed to comply with the Energy Efficiency mandate in Ohios SB 221, passed in 2008. This law requires that utilities in Ohio reduce energy usage by 22.2 percent by 2025 and peak demand by 7.75 percent by 2018, develop a portfolio plan, and meet annual benchmarks to measure progress. NYSEG RulingOn July 11, 2011, FirstEnergy was found to be a potentially responsible party under CERCLA indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean up costs at certain legacy MGP sites in New York. As a result, FirstEnergy recognized additional expense of $29 million during the second quarter of 2011.West Virginia Fuel, Purchased Power Cost Decision On December 30, 2011, MP and PE announced that the WVPSC issued an order regarding the companies adjustment of fuel and purchased power costs. The WVPSCs order approved a settlement agreement between the companies, the Consumer Advocate Division, the Staff of the WVPSC and the West Virginia Energy Users Group. In the approved settlement, parties have agreed that the companies will recover an additional $19.6 million in 2012, an approximate 1.7 percent increase, primarily reflecting rising coal prices over the past two years, with certain additional amounts to be recovered over time with a carrying charge.FIRSTENERGYS BUSINESSWith the completion of the AE merger in the first quarter of 2011, FirstEnergy reorganized its management structure, which resulted in changes to its operating segments to be consistent with the manner in which management views the business. The new structure supports the combined companys primary operations distribution, transmission, generation and the marketing and sale of its products. The external segment reporting is consistent with the internal financial reporting used by FirstEnergys chief executive 50officer (its chief operating decision maker) to regularly assess the performance of the business and allocate resources. FirstEnergy now has three reportable operating segments Regulated Distribution, Regulated Independent Transmission and Competitive Energy Services.Prior to the change in composition of business segments, FirstEnergys business was comprised of two reportable operating segments. The Energy Delivery Services segment was comprised of FirstEnergys then eight existing utility operating companies that transmit and distribute electricity to customers and purchase power to serve their POLR and default service requirements. The Competitive Energy Services segment was comprised of FES, which supplies electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements. The Other/Corporate amounts consisted of corporate items and other businesses that were below the quantifiable threshold for separate disclosure. Disclosures for FirstEnergys operating segments for 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the revised presentation.The changes in FirstEnergys reportable segments during 2011 consisted primarily of the following:Energy Delivery Services was renamed Regulated Distribution and the operations of MP, PE and WP, which were acquired as part of the merger with AE, and certain regulatory asset recovery mechanisms formerly included in the Other/Corporate segment, were placed into this segment.A new Regulated Independent Transmission segment was created consisting of ATSI, and the operations of TrAIL and FirstEnergys interest in PATH; TrAIL and PATH were acquired as part of the merger with AE. The transmission assets and operations of JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec, MP, PE and WP remained within the Regulated Distribution segment.AE Supply, an operator of generation facilities that was acquired as part of the merger with AE, was placed into the Competitive Energy Services segment with FES.Regulated Distribution distributes electricity through our ten utility distribution companies, serving approximately 6 million customers within 67,000 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York, and purchases power for its POLR, SOS and default service requirements in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This segment also includes the transmission operations of JCP&L, Met Ed, Penelec, WP, MP and PE and the regulated electric generation facilities in West Virginia and New Jersey which MP and JCP&L, respectively, own or contractually control. Its results reflect the commodity costs of securing electric generation and the deferral and amortization of certain fuel costs.The service areas of our regulated distribution utilities are summarized below:Company Area Served Customers ServedOE Central and Northeastern Ohio 1,032,000Penn Western Pennsylvania 161,000CEI Northeastern Ohio 747,000TE Northwestern Ohio 309,000JCP&L Northern, Western and East Central New Jersey 1,099,000Met Ed Eastern Pennsylvania 553,000Penelec Western Pennsylvania 590,000WP Southwest, South Central and Northern Pennsylvania 718,000MP Northern, Central and Southeastern West Virginia 387,000PE Western Maryland and Eastern West Virginia 390,000 5,986,000Regulated Independent Transmission transmits electricity through transmission lines and its revenues are primarily derived from a formulaic rate that recovers costs and a return on investment for capital expenditures in connection with TrAIL, PATH and other projects, revenues from providing transmission services to electric energy providers and power marketers, and revenues from operating a portion of the FirstEnergy transmission system. Its results reflect the net transmission expenses related to the delivery of the respective generation loads. Competitive Energy Services supplies, through FES and AE Supply, electric power to end use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements, including competitive retail sales to customers primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland and the provision of partial POLR and default service for some utilities in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland, including but not limited to the Utilities. This segment controls approximately 17,000 MWs of capacity (excluding approximately 2,700 MWs from unregulated plants expected to be closed by September 1, 2012) (see Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and also purchases electricity to meet sales obligations. The segments net income is primarily derived from electric generation sales less the related costs of electricity generation, including purchased power and net transmission (including congestion) and ancillary costs charged by PJM and MISO (prior to June 1, 2011) 51to deliver energy to the segments customers.Other/Corporate contains corporate items and other businesses that are below the quantifiable threshold for separate disclosure as a reportable segment. (See Note 19, Segment Information of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on FirstEnergys reportable operating segments.)STRATEGY AND OUTLOOKFirstEnergys vision is to be a leading regional energy provider, recognized for operational excellence, outstanding customer service and our commitment to safety; the choice for long term growth, investment value and financial strength; and a company driven by the leadership, skills, diversity and character of our employees. FirstEnergy has grown over the last 15 years through several strategic mergers and asset transactions. Our most recent merger with Allegheny was completed in February 2011, significantly increasing our customer base and generating capacity and accelerating our movement further into eastern competitive markets. Also during 2011, we completed the transition to competitive markets in Pennsylvania and moved our ATSI assets into PJM, so that we now operate within a single regional transmission system. FirstEnergy is uniquely positioned as the nations largest contiguous electric system, with complementary assets across our generation, transmission and distribution delivery operations. These assets are in a prime location of PJMs competitive markets. Our substantial regulated operations include 10 distribution utilities serving a balanced base of nearly 6 million customers across 5 states. We are also one of the largest owners of transmission assets in PJM with nearly 20,000 miles of high voltage lines, including two independent transmission companies with significant assets. Combined, our utilities and transmission operations provide financial stability with strong cash flow and dividend support to FirstEnergy. Our market focused business model integrates more than 17,000 MWs of competitive generation, excluding approximately 2,700 MWs from unregulated plants expected to be closed by September 1, 2012, and are subject to review by PJM for reliability impacts(see Note 16, Commitment, Guarantees and Contingencies, regarding PJMs review of the our plans), with a multi channel retail sales platform, providing a higher value for every MWH we generate. We primarily target customers in competitive markets close to our generation assets.We believe we are well positioned for upcoming environmental changes due to the considerable investments we have made in recent years to diversify our generation fleet and improve its environmental performance. As a result of the MATS rules recently finalized by the EPA, and other previously announced environmental regulations, FirstEnergy announced in early 2012 its intent to retire nine older coal fired power plants, totaling 3,349 MW, located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia by September 1, 2012. When the retired fossil plants are removed from our fleet, nearly 100% percent of our generation output will be from either low or non emitting facilities, including nuclear, hydro, natural gas and scrubbed coal units. This further positions our fleet to deliver superior value in the future. We continue to face challenges related to macro economic factors. These include slow economic recovery across portions of our service territory, which affect our distribution deliveries volumes to residential, commercial and industrial customers, and depressed natural gas and wholesale electricity prices, which affect revenues from our competitive retail business and generation fleet. However, we believe we are one of the better positioned companies in our industry to benefit from eventual increases in energy and capacity prices as economic conditions improve.Financial OutlookWe intend to manage our operating and capital costs in order to achieve our financial goals and commitment to shareholders.Our liquidity position remains strong, with approximately $49 million of short term cash investments and over $4.3 billion of available liquidity as of January 31, 2012. Positive earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include: A full year contribution from the Allegheny merger;Higher competitive retail revenues as a result of continued growth in the business;Lower fuel and operation and maintenance expenses due to the retirement of certain coal fired plants in 2012 and from a continued focus on controlling our costs; andReduced interest expense as a result of debt redemptions during 2011. Negative earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include:Lower margins for our competitive energy service business from depressed market prices of power and lower capacity 52prices resulting from the PJM RPM auction beginning June 1, 2012;Higher gross receipts taxes associated with increased competitive retail sales in Pennsylvania; andIncreased depreciation expenses from capital projects that were placed in service during 2011.On January 5, 2012, we made a $600 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan bringing its funding level to 90% on an accumulated benefit obligation basis.Capital Expenditures OutlookOur capital expenditures in 2012 are estimated to be $2.1 billion (excluding nuclear fuel), a decrease of approximately $393 million from 2011. In addition to internal sources to fund capital requirements for 2012 and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Capital expenditures for our Regulated Distribution segment are forecast to decrease by $63 million in 2012 from $1.1 billion in 2011. The expected decrease primarily reflects the absence of storm restoration costs related to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. For our Regulated Independent Transmission segment, capital expenditures are expected to decrease to $105 million in 2012 from $190 million in 2011. The decrease reflects the completion of TrAILs 500 kV transmission line in 2011. Expenditures for Ohio and Pennsylvania energy efficiency and advanced metering initiatives are expected to be primarily recovered from distribution customers and federal stimulus funding. Other capital investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure are planned to satisfy transmission capacity and reliability requirements, connect new load delivery and wholesale generation points, and achieve cost effective improvements in the reliability of our service. For our Competitive Energy Services segment, capital expenditures are expected to increase by $32 million to $803 million in 2012. The main drivers of the increase include steam generator replacement projects at Davis Besse and Beaver Valley Unit 2 and turbine rotor replacement projects at Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2. Other planned generation investments provide for maintenance of critical generation assets, delivering operational improvements to enhance reliability, supporting environmental compliance, and advancing our generation to market strategy. For 2013, we anticipate baseline capital expenditures of approximately $2.0 billion, which exclude any potential additional strategic opportunities, future mandated spending, energy efficiency or environmental spending relating to MATS. Planned capital initiatives are intended to promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Environmental OutlookWe continually strive to enhance environmental protection and remain good stewards of our natural resources. We devote significant resources to environmental compliance efforts, and our employees share a commitment to, and accountability for, environmental performance. Our corporate focus on continuous improvement is integral to our environmental programs. We have spent more than $10 billion on environmental protection efforts since the initial passage of the Clean Air and Water Acts in the 1970s, and these investments demonstrate our continuing commitment to the environment. Recent investments of $3.0 billion at our Hatfield, Fort Martin and Sammis Plants, further reduced emissions of SO2 by over 95%, and NOx by at least 64% at these facilities. Since 1990, we have reduced emissions of NOx by more than 76%, SO2 by more than 86%, and mercury by approximately 56%.We have taken aggressive steps over the past two decades that have increased our generating capacity without adding to overall CO2 emissions. For example, since 1990, we have reconfigured our fleet by retiring 1,312 MWs and committing to retire in the near future 3,349 MWs of older, coal based generation and adding more than 1,800 MWs of non emitting capacity. Through these and other actions, we have increased our generating capacity by nearly 15% over the same period while avoiding over 370 million metric tons of CO2 emissions.We have taken a leadership role in pursuing new ventures to test and develop new technologies that may achieve additional reductions in CO2 emissions. These include:Sales of over 1 million MWH per year of wind generation. CO2 sequestration testing to gain a better understanding of the potential for geological storage of CO2. Supporting afforestation growing forests on non forested land and other efforts designed to remove CO2 from the environment.Reducing emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) by nearly 15 metric tons, resulting in an equivalent reduction of nearly 315,000 metric tons of CO2, through the EPAs SF6 Emissions Reduction Partnership for Electric Power Systems.53Supporting research to develop and evaluate cost effective sorbent materials for CO2 capture including work by EPRI and The University of Akron.We remain actively engaged in the federal and state debate over future environmental requirements and legislation. We actively work with policy makers and regulators to develop fair and reasonable requirements, with the goal of reducing emissions while minimizing the economic impact on our customers. Due to the significant uncertainty as to the final form or timing of a significant number of regulations and legislation at both the federal and state levels, we are unable to determine the potential impact and risks associated with all future environmental requirements. The CSAPR was stayed at the end of 2011 and the federal appeals court reviewing CSAPR has scheduled an April 13, 2012 hearing. The new MATS were finalized at the end of 2011, which resulted in our decision to retire nine older coal fired generation plants by September 1, 2012. Our current estimate is that it may cost approximately $1.3 $1.7 billion to bring our remaining units into compliance.We also have a long history of supporting research in distributed energy resources. Distributed energy resources include fuel cells, solar and wind systems or energy storage technologies located close to the customer or direct control of customer loads to provide alternatives or enhancements to the traditional electric power system. We are testing the worlds largest utility scale fuel cell system to determine its feasibility for augmenting generating capacity during summer peak use periods. Through a partnership with EPRI, the Cuyahoga Valley National Park, the Department of Defense and Case Western Reserve University, two solid oxide fuel cells were installed as part of a test program to explore the technology and the environmental benefits of distributed generation. We are also evaluating the impact of distributed energy storage on the distribution system through analysis and field demonstrations of advanced battery technologies. FirstEnergys EasyGreen load management program utilizes two way communication capability with customers non critical equipment, such as air conditioners in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, to help manage peak loading on the electric distribution system. We have also made an online interactive energy efficiency tool, Home Energy Analyzer, available to our customers to help achieve electricity use reduction goals.RISKS AND CHALLENGESIn executing our strategy, we face a number of industry and enterprise risks and challenges. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for a discussion of the risks and challenges faced by FirstEnergy and the Registrants.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe financial results discussed below include revenues and expenses from transactions among FirstEnergys business segments. A reconciliation of segment financial results is provided in Note 19, Segment Information of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described in Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, FirstEnergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and applied this change retrospectively to all periods presented. Earnings available to FirstEnergy by major business segment were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs 2010 2010 vs 2009 (In millions, except per share data)Earnings By Business Segment: Regulated Distribution$570 $553 $335 $17 $218Competitive Energy Services377 210 446 167 (236)Regulated Independent Transmission112 54 39 58 15Other and reconciling adjustments(1)(174) (75) 52 (99) (127)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp.$885 $742 $872 $143 $(130) Earnings Per Basic Share$2.22 $2.44 $2.87 $(0.22) $(0.43) Earnings Per Diluted Share$2.21 $2.42 $2.85 $(0.21) $(0.43)(1) Consists primarily of interest expense related to holding company debt, corporate support services revenues and expenses, noncontrolling interests and the elimination of intersegment transactions.Summary of Results of Operations 2011 Compared with 2010Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2011 and 2010 were as follows:542011 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,544 $5,573 $ $ $15,117Other 460 363 391 (140) 1,074Internal 1,237 (1,170) 67Total Revenues 10,004 7,173 391 (1,310) 16,258 Operating Expenses: Fuel 268 2,049 2,317Purchased power 4,672 1,491 (1,177) 4,986Other operating expenses 1,662 2,256 68 (77) 3,909Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 290 215 2 507Provision for depreciation 620 415 60 26 1,121Amortization of regulatory assets, net 323 6 329General taxes 724 200 33 21 978Impairment of long lived assets 87 315 11 413Total Operating Expenses 8,646 6,941 169 (1,196) 14,560 Operating Income 1,358 232 222 (114) 1,698 Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak 569 569Investment income 110 56 (52) 114Interest expense (573) (298) (46) (91) (1,008)Capitalized interest 10 40 2 18 70Total Other Income (Expense) (453) 367 (44) (125) (255) Income Before Income Taxes 905 599 178 (239) 1,443Income taxes 335 222 66 (49) 574Net Income 570 377 112 (190) 869Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16) (16)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $570 $377 $112 $(174) $885552010 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,271 $3,252 $ $ $12,523Other 300 323 242 (123) 742Internal 139 2,301 (2,366) 74Total Revenues 9,710 5,876 242 (2,489) 13,339 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,432 1,432Purchased power 5,273 1,724 (2,373) 4,624Other operating expenses 1,320 1,393 61 (78) 2,696Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 82 107 (2) 3 190Provision for depreciation 433 284 37 14 768Amortization of regulatory assets, net 712 10 722General taxes 605 124 30 17 776Impairment of long lived assets 388 388Total Operating Expenses 8,425 5,452 136 (2,417) 11,596 Operating Income 1,285 424 106 (72) 1,743 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36) 117Interest expense (500) (232) (22) (91) (845)Capitalized interest 4 95 2 64 165Total Other Expense (394) (86) (20) (63) (563) Income Before Income Taxes 891 338 86 (135) 1,180Income taxes 338 128 32 (36) 462Net Income 553 210 54 (99) 718Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24) (24)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $553 $210 $54 $(75) $74256Changes Between 2011 and 2010 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $273 $2,321 $ $ $2,594Other 160 40 149 (17) 332Internal (139) (1,064) 1,196 (7)Total Revenues 294 1,297 149 1,179 2,919 Operating Expenses: Fuel 268 617 885Purchased power (601) (233) 1,196 362Other operating expenses 342 863 7 1 1,213Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 208 108 4 (3) 317Provision for depreciation 187 131 23 12 353Amortization of regulatory assets, net (389) (4) (393)General taxes 119 76 3 4 202Impairment of long lived assets 87 (73) 11 25Total Operating Expenses 221 1,489 33 1,221 2,964 Operating Income 73 (192) 116 (42) (45) Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak 569 569Investment income 8 5 (16) (3)Interest expense (73) (66) (24) (163)Capitalized interest 6 (55) (46) (95)Total Other Income (Expense) (59) 453 (24) (62) 308 Income Before Income Taxes 14 261 92 (104) 263Income taxes (3) 94 34 (13) 112Net Income 17 167 58 (91) 151Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 8 8Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $17 $167 $58 $(99) $143Regulated Distribution 2011 Compared with 2010 Net income increased by $17 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to earnings from the Allegheny companies and the absence of a 2010 regulatory asset impairment associated with the Ohio companies ESP, partially offset by higher pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges and merger related costs. Lower generation revenues were offset with lower purchased power expenses. 57Revenues The increase in total revenues resulted from the following sources: For the year ended December 31 Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Pre merger companies: Distribution services $3,426 $3,629 $(203)Generation: Retail 3,266 4,457 (1,191)Wholesale 377 702 (325)Total generation sales 3,6435,159 (1,516)Transmission 262 596 (334)Other 187 326 (139)Total pre merger companies 7,518 9,710 (2,192)Allegheny companies 2,486 2,486Total Revenues $10,004 $9,710 $294The decrease in distribution service revenues for the pre merger companies (FirstEnergy as it was organized prior to the February 2011 merger with Allegheny) primarily reflects lower transition revenues due to the completion of transition cost recovery by CEI in December 2010, an NJBPU approved rate adjustment that became effective March 1, 2011, for all JCP&L customer classes, and the mid year suspension of the Ohio Companies recovery of deferred distribution costs. Partially offsetting the decreased distribution service revenues were increased rates in Met Eds and Penelecs transition riders and energy efficiency riders for the Pennsylvania and Ohio Companies. Distribution deliveries (excluding the Allegheny companies) increased by 0.1% in 2011 from 2010.The change in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table: For the year ended December 31 Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) Pre merger companies: Residential 39,369 39,820 (1.1)%Commercial 32,610 33,096 (1.5)%Industrial 35,637 34,613 3.0 %Other 513 522 (1.7)%Total pre merger companies 108,129 108,051 0.1 %Allegheny companies 33,449 Total Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 141,578 108,051 31.0 %Lower deliveries to residential and commercial customers primarily reflected decreased weather related usage resulting from lower heating degree days (4%) and cooling degree days (7%) in 2011 compared to 2010. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased to steel and electrical equipment customers by 10% and 12%, respectively, partially offset by decreased deliveries to automotive customers of 2% in 2011 compared to 2010.58The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1,516 million decrease in generation revenues for the pre merger companies in 2011 compared to 2010:Source of Change in Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Retail: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,638)Change in prices 447 (1,191)Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (104)Change in prices (221) (325)Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $(1,516)The decrease in retail generation sales volume was primarily due to increased customer shopping in the service territories of the pre merger companies in 2011 compared to 2010. Total generation provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total MWH deliveries increased to 76% from 62% for the Ohio Companies, and to 52% from 10% in Met Eds, Penelecs and Penns service territories. The increase in retail prices is the result of higher generation charges in Pennsylvania due to the removal of generation rate caps for Met Ed and Penelec beginning on January 1, 2011, and the inclusion of transmission as part of the price of generation. Those impacts were partially offset by a decrease in the Ohio Companies generation rates beginning in June 2011 with the removal of certain transmission charges in connection with the integration into PJM.The decrease in wholesale generation revenues reflected lower RPM revenues for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $334 million primarily due to the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. This is partially offset by a new rider that became effective for the Ohio Companies in June 2011 that recovers network integration transmission service charges. Other revenues decreased by $139 million primarily due to the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES as of December 31, 2010, resulting in decreased capacity revenues. The Allegheny companies added $2,486 million to revenues in 2011, including $571 million for distribution services, $1,661 million from generation sales, $212 million of transmission revenues and $42 million of other revenues.Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased by $221 million in 2011. Excluding the Allegheny companies, total operating expenses decreased $1.9 billion due to the following:Purchased power costs were $1.7 billion lower in 2011 due primarily to a decrease in volumes required. Decreased power purchased from FES primarily reflected the increase in customer shopping described above, the termination of Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES at the end of 2010, and less Ohio POLR load served by FES beginning in June 2011. The increase in volumes purchased from non affiliates in 2011 is primarily due to Met Eds and Penelecs generation procurement plan effective January 1, 2011 and more Ohio POLR load served by non affiliates, partially offset by a decrease in RPM expenses in the PJM market. 59Source of Change in Purchased Power Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Pre merger companies: Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to decreased unit costs $(826)Change due to increased volumes 515 (311)Purchases from FES: Change due to increased unit costs 165Change due to decreased volumes (1,601) (1,436) Total pre merger companies (1,747)Purchases by Allegheny companies 1,146Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $(601)Other operating expenses decreased $37 million, primarily due to the following:Storm restoration maintenance and removal expenses increased $126 million primarily related to restoration associated with Hurricane Irene and an October 2011 East Coast snowstorm, primarily impacting the JCP&L and Met Ed service territories. Approximately $120 million of the total costs were deferred for future recovery from customers.Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased by $92 million.A provision for excess and obsolete material of $13 million was recognized in 2011 due to revised inventory practices adopted in conjunction with the Allegheny merger.The absence of a $7 million favorable JCP&L labor settlement that occurred in 2010.Transmission expenses decreased $285 million primarily due to reduced congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec in 2011.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges increased $132 million as a result of higher net actuarial losses.Depreciation expense increased $24 million primarily due to property additions since 2010. Net amortization of regulatory assets decreased $368 million primarily due to reduced net PJM transmission and transition cost recovery, the absence of a $35 million regulatory asset impairment recognized in 2010 associated with the filing of the Ohio Companies ESP on March 23, 2010, and the deferral of recoverable costs from Hurricane Irene and the 2011 East Coast snowstorm, partially offset by increased energy efficiency cost recovery. General Taxes increased $10 million due to the absence of a favorable property tax settlement recognized in 2010. Impairments of long lived assets totaling $87 million in 2011 resulted from the pending shutdown of three coal fired plants in West Virginia.60The acquisition of the Allegheny companies resulted in the inclusion of the following operating expenses in 2011:Operating Expenses Allegheny In Millions Purchased power $1,146Fuel 268Transmission 120Amortization of regulatory assets, net (21)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 76Other operating expenses 259General taxes 109Depreciation expense 163Total Operating Expenses $2,120Other Expense Other expense increased $59 million in 2011 due to interest expense on debt of the Allegheny companies partially offset by higher investment income on OEs and TEs nuclear decommissioning trusts and increased capitalized interest.Regulated Independent Transmission 2011 Compared with 2010 Net income increased by $58 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to earnings associated with TrAIL and PATH of $79 million, partially offset by decreased earnings for ATSI of $20 million.Revenues Total revenues increased by $149 million principally due to revenues from TrAIL and PATH, which were acquired as part of the merger with Allegheny, partially offset by a decrease in ATSI revenues due to the transition from MISO to PJM and the completion of vegetation management cost recovery in May 2011. Revenues by transmission asset owner are shown in the following table:Revenues by Transmission Asset Owner 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)ATSI $207 $242 $(35)TrAIL 170 170PATH 14 14Total Revenues $391 $242 $149Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased by $33 million principally due to the addition of TrAIL and PATH in 2011.Other Expense Other expense increased $24 million in 2011 due to additional interest expense associated with TrAIL.Competitive Energy Services 2011 Compared to 2010Net income increased by $166 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $569 million gain ($358 million net of tax) on the partial sale of FEVs interest in Signal Peak in 2011 and decreased impairments of long lived assets. Partially offsetting this was a decrease in sales margins of $193 million, a $66 million increase in interest expense and a $55 million decrease in capitalized interest compared to 2010. Revenues Total revenues increased $1.3 billion in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to an increase in direct and governmental aggregation sales and the inclusion of the Allegheny companies, partially offset by a decline in POLR and structured sales.61The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $3,785 $2,493 $1,292POLR and Structured Sales 944 2,589 (1,645)Wholesale 457 397 60Transmission 108 77 31RECs 67 74 (7)Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 (85)Other 173 161 12Allegheny Companies 1,639 1,639Total Revenues $7,173 $5,876 $1,297 Allegheny Companies Direct and Government Aggregation $84 POLR and Structured Sales 561 Wholesale 912 Transmission 88 Other (6) Total Revenues $1,639 MWH Sales by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase (Decrease) (In thousands)Direct 46,187 28,499 17,688Government Aggregation 17,722 12,796 4,926POLR and Structured Sales 15,340 50,358 (35,018)Wholesale 2,916 5,391 (2,475)Allegheny Companies 26,609 26,609Total Sales 108,774 97,044 11,730 Allegheny Companies Direct 1,390 POLR 7,974 Structured Sales 1,492 Wholesale 15,753 Total Sales 26,609 The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.3 billion resulted from the acquisition of new residential, commercial and industrial customers, as well as new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio and Illinois that provide generation to approximately 1.8 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2011 compared to approximately 1.5 million customers at the end of 2010. Increases in direct sales volume were partially offset by lower unit prices. The decrease in POLR and structured sales revenues of $1.6 billion was due to lower sales volumes to Met Ed, Penelec and the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales to non affiliates and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The decline in POLR sales reflects our focus on more profitable sales channels.Wholesale revenues increased $60 million due to higher wholesale prices partially offset by decreased volumes. The lower sales volumes were the result of decreased short term (net hourly positions) transactions in MISO, partially offset by increased short term transactions in PJM. In addition, capacity revenues earned by units that moved to PJM from MISO were partially offset by losses on financially settled sales contracts.62The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,034Change in prices (75) 959Governmental Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 319Change in prices 14 333Net Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $1,292Source of Change in POLR and Structured Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,800)Change in prices 155 $(1,645) Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(182)Change in prices 242 $60Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased $1.5 billion in 2011. Excluding the Allegheny companies, total operating expenses decreased $98 million compared to 2010, due to the following factors:Fuel costs decreased $177 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to cash received from assigning a substantially below market, long term fossil contract to a third party. In connection with its merger integration initiatives and risk management strategy, FirstEnergy continues to evaluate opportunities with respect to its commodity contracts. As a result of the assignment, FirstEnergy entered into a new long term contract with another supplier for replacement fuel based on current market prices. Excluding the assignment, fuel costs decreased $54 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to decreased volumes consumed ($115 million), partially offset by higher unit prices ($61 million). The decrease in fossil fuel expense reflects lower generation needed to satisfy sales requirements. Lower fossil fuel expenses were partially offset by a $22 million increase in nuclear fuel costs, which rose principally due to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2010 and 2011.Purchased power costs decreased $382 million as lower volumes ($649 million) were partially offset by higher unit prices ($267 million). The decrease in volume primarily relates to the expiration at the end of 2010 of a 1,300 MW third party contract associated with serving Met Ed and Penelec.Fossil operating costs increased $36 million due primarily to higher labor, contractor and material costs resulting from an increase in planned and unplanned outages, which were partially offset by reduced losses from the sale of excess coal.Nuclear operating costs increased $53 million primarily due to Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 refueling outages in 2011. While Davis Besse had a refueling outage in 2010 and an outage in 2011 to replace the reactor vessel head, the work performed on both outages was largely capital related.Transmission expenses increased $249 million due primarily to higher congestion, network and line loss expenses.Depreciation expense increased $20 million principally due to the completion of the Sammis projects at the end of 2010.General taxes increased $36 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.63Impairments of long lived assets decreased $85 million compared to last year. The 2011 charges are due to the pending shutdown of six unregulated, coal fired generating units; charges in 2010 related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units.Other operating expenses increased $152 million primarily due to a $54 million provision for excess and obsolete material relating to revised inventory practices adopted in connection with the Allegheny merger; a $64 million increase in pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges from higher net actuarial losses; a $10 million increase in other mark to market adjustments; an $18 million increase in agent fees due to rapid growth in FES retail business; and a $17 million increase in intercompany billings. The intercompany billings increased due to higher merger related costs, partially offset by lower leasehold costs from the Ohio Companies. The inclusion of the Allegheny companies operations added $1.6 billion to operating expenses as shown in the following table:Source of Operating Expense Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Allegheny Companies Fuel $794Purchased power 149Fossil operation and maintenance 152Transmission 198Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 44Other mark to market 4Depreciation 111General taxes 40Other 96Total operating expenses $1,588Other Expense Total other expense in 2011 was $453 million lower than 2010, primarily due to a $569 million gain on the partial sale of FEVs interest in Signal Peak and an increase in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income of $5 million, partially offset by a $121 million increase in net interest expense. The net interest expense increase in 2011 from 2010 resulted from lower capitalized interest due to the completion of major environmental projects in 2010.Other 2011 Compared to 2010Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in an $99 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease resulted primarily from decreased capitalized interest and increased depreciation expense resulting from the completed construction projects placed into service ($58 million), decreased investment income ($16 million), an asset impairment charge in the first quarter of 2011 ($11 million) and higher income taxes ($13 million).Summary of Results of Operations 2010 Compared with 2009Financial results for FirstEnergys major business segments in 2010 and 2009 were as follows:642010 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $9,271 $3,252 $ $ $12,523Other 300 323 242 (123) 742Internal 139 2,301 (2,366) 74Total Revenues 9,710 5,876 242 (2,489) 13,339 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,432 1,432Purchased power 5,273 1,724 (2,373) 4,624Other operating expenses 1,320 1,393 61 (78) 2,696Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 82 107 (2) 3 190Provision for depreciation 433 284 37 14 768Amortization of regulatory assets, net 712 10 722General taxes 605 124 30 17 776Impairment of long lived assets 388 388Total Operating Expenses 8,425 5,452 136 (2,417) 11,596 Operating Income 1,285 424 106 (72) 1,743 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 102 51 (36) 117Interest expense (500) (232) (22) (91) (845)Capitalized interest 4 95 2 64 165Total Other Expense (394) (86) (20) (63) (563) Income Before Income Taxes 891 338 86 (135) 1,180Income taxes 338 128 32 (36) 462Net Income 553 210 54 (99) 718Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24) (24)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $553 $210 $54 $(75) $742652009 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $10,585 $1,447 $ $ $12,032Other 331 481 223 (111) 924Internal 2,843 (2,826) 17Total Revenues 10,916 4,771 223 (2,937) 12,973 Operating Expenses: Fuel 1,153 1,153Purchased power 6,560 996 (2,826) 4,730Other operating expenses 1,257 1,332 56 (94) 2,551Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 166 151 2 2 321Provision for depreciation 426 279 37 15 757Amortization of regulatory assets, net 1,006 13 1,019General taxes 589 112 32 20 753Impairment of long lived assets 6 6Total Operating Expenses 10,004 4,029 140 (2,883) 11,290 Operating Income 912 742 83 (54) 1,683 Other Income (Expense): Investment income 141 121 (58) 204Interest expense (478) (174) (19) (307) (978)Capitalized interest 3 62 1 65 131Total Other Expense (334) 9 (18) (300) (643) Income Before Income Taxes 578 751 65 (354) 1,040Income taxes 243 305 26 (390) 184Net Income 335 446 39 36 856Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (16) (16)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $335 $446 $39 $52 $87266Changes Between 2010 and 2009 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Competitive Energy Services Regulated Independent Transmission Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated (In millions)Revenues: External Electric $(1,314) $1,805 $ $ $491Other (31) (158) 19 (12) (182)Internal 139 (542) 460 57Total Revenues (1,206) 1,105 19 448 366 Operating Expenses: Fuel 279 279Purchased power (1,287) 728 453 (106)Other operating expenses 63 61 5 16 145Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment (84) (44) (4) 1 (131)Provision for depreciation 7 5 (1) 11Amortization of regulatory assets, net (294) (3) (297)General taxes 16 12 (2) (3) 23Impairment of long lived assets 382 382Total Operating Expenses (1,579) 1,423 (4) 466 306 Operating Income 373 (318) 23 (18) 60 Other Income (Expense): Gain on partial sale of Signal Peak Investment income (39) (70) 22 (87)Interest expense (22) (58) (3) 216 133Capitalized interest 1 33 1 (1) 34Total Other Expense (60) (95) (2) 237 80 Income Before Income Taxes 313 (413) 21 219 140Income taxes 95 (177) 6 354 278Net Income 218 (236) 15 (135) (138)Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (8) (8)Earnings available to FirstEnergy Corp. $218 $(236) $15 $(127) $(130)Regulated Distribution 2010 Compared with 2009Net income increased by $218 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to CEIs $216 million regulatory asset impairment in 2009 and lower pensions and OPEB costs, partially offset by increases in other operating expenses. Lower generation revenues were offset by lower purchased power expenses.67Revenues The decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Distribution services $3,629 $3,419 $210Generation: Retail 4,457 5,764 (1,307)Wholesale 702 752 (50)Total generation sales 5,159 6,516 (1,357)Transmission 596 805 (209)Other 326 176 150Total Revenues $9,710 $10,916 $(1,206)The increase in distribution deliveries by customer class is summarized in the following table:Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries IncreaseResidential 5.9%Commercial 2.8%Industrial 8.4%Total Distribution MWH Deliveries 5.6%Higher deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflect increased weather related usage due to a 70% increase in cooling degree days in 2010 compared to 2009, partially offset by a 4% decrease in heating degree days for the same period. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily to major automotive customers (16%), refinery customers (7%) and steel customers (38%). The increase in distribution service revenues also reflects Met Eds, Penelecs and Penns recovery of the Pennsylvania EE&C as approved by the PPUC in March 2010 and the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio, partially offset by a reduction in the transition rate for CEI effective June 1, 2009.The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $1.4 billion decrease in generation revenues in 2010 compared to 2009:Source of Change in Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Retail: Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,435)Change in prices 128 (1,307)Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (64)Change in prices 14 (50)Net Decrease in Generation Revenues $(1,357)The decrease in retail generation sales volumes was primarily due to an increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. Total generation MWH provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total MWH deliveries by the Ohio Companies increased to 62% in 2010 from 17% in 2009. The decrease in wholesale generation revenues reflected lower RPM revenues for Met Ed and Penelec in the PJM market. Transmission revenues decreased $209 million primarily due to the termination of the Ohio Companies transmission tariff effective June 1, 2009; transmission costs are now a component of the cost of generation established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP.Other revenues increased by $150 million primarily due to Met Eds and Penelecs PSA with FES in 2010, resulting in increased capacity revenues. 68Operating Expenses Total operating expenses decreased by $1.6 billion due to the following:Purchased power costs were $1.3 billion lower in 2010, largely due to lower volume requirements. The decrease in volumes from non affiliates resulted principally from the termination of a third party supply contract for Met Ed and Penelec in January 2010 and from the increase in customer shopping in the Ohio Companies service territories. The decrease in purchases from FES also resulted from the increase in customer shopping in Ohio.An increase in purchased power unit costs from non affiliates in 2010 resulted from higher capacity prices in the PJM market for Met Ed and Penelec. A decrease in unit costs for purchases from FES was principally due to the lower weighted average unit price per MWH established under the May 2009 CBP auction for the Ohio Companies effective June 1, 2009.Source of Change in Purchased Power Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Purchases from non affiliates: Change due to increased unit costs $709Change due to decreased volumes (1,489) (780)Purchases from FES: Change due to decreased unit costs (257)Change due to decreased volumes (250) (507)Net Decrease in Purchased Power Costs $(1,287)Transmission expenses increased $70 million primarily due to higher PJM network transmission expenses and congestion costs for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by lower MISO network transmission expenses that are reflected in the generation rate established under the May 2009 Ohio CBP. Met Ed and Penelec defer or amortize the difference between revenues from their transmission rider and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect on current period earnings.Energy efficiency program costs, which are also recovered through rates, increased $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009.Labor and employee benefit expenses decreased by $30 million due to lower payroll costs resulting from staffing reductions implemented in 2009, and restructuring expenses recognized in 2009.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges decreased by $84 million primarily resulting from lower net actuarial losses.Expenses for economic development commitments related to the Ohio Companies ESP were lower by $11 million in 2010 compared to 2009.Depreciation expense increased $7 million due to property additions since 2009.Amortization of regulatory assets decreased $294 million due primarily to the absence of the $216 million impairment of CEIs regulatory assets in 2009, reduced net MISO and PJM transmission cost amortization and reduced CTC amortization for Met Ed and Penelec, partially offset by increased amortization associated with the accelerated recovery of deferred distribution costs in Ohio and a $35 million regulatory asset impairment in 2010 associated with the Ohio Companies ESP and the absence of CEIs purchased power cost deferrals that ended in early 2009.General taxes increased $16 million principally due to a benefit relating to Ohio MWH excise taxes that was recognized in 2009 and applicable to prior years.Other Expense Other expense increased $60 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower investment income on OEs and TEs nuclear decommissioning trusts ($37 million) and higher net interest expense associated with debt issuances during 2009 ($23 million).Regulated Independent Transmission 2010 Compared with 2009 Net income increased by $15 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increased revenues.69Revenues Total revenues increased by $19 million principally due to higher peak loads in 2010 compared to 2009.Operating Expenses Total operating expenses decreased by $4 million principally due to decreased property taxes and decreased pensions and OPEB costs primarily due to lower net actuarial losses.Other Expense Other expense increased $2 million in 2010 due to higher interest expense associated with higher average debt levels in 2010 compared to 2009. Competitive Energy Services 2010 Compared to 2009Net income decreased by $235 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily due to $382 million of impairment charges ($240 million net of tax) in 2010. In addition, FES sold a 6.65% participation interest in OVEC in 2010 compared to a 9% interest in 2009, accounting for $105 million of the reduction in net income. Investment income from nuclear decommissioning trusts was also lower in 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in sales margins.Revenues Total revenues increased $1.1 billion in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to an increase in direct and governmental aggregation sales and sales of RECs, partially offset by decreases in POLR sales to the Ohio Companies, other wholesale sales and the reduced OVEC participation interest sale in 2010.The increase in reported segment revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2010 2009 Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $2,493 $779 $1,714POLR 2,589 2,863 (274)Wholesale 397 632 (235)Transmission 77 73 4RECs 74 17 57Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 252 (167)Other 161 155 6Total Revenues $5,876 $4,771 $1,105The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.7 billion resulted from increased revenue from the acquisition of new commercial and industrial customers as well as from new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio that provide generation to 1.5 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2010 compared to approximately 600,000 customers at the end of 2009. Increases in direct sales were partially offset by lower unit prices. Sales to residential and small commercial customers were also bolstered by summer weather in the delivery area that was significantly warmer than in 2009.The decrease in POLR revenues of $274 million was due to lower sales volumes and lower unit prices to the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales volumes and higher unit prices to Met Ed and Penelec. The lower sales volumes and unit prices to the Ohio Companies in 2010 reflected the results of the May 2009 CBP. The increased revenues to Met Ed and Penelec resulted from FES supplying volumes previously supplied through a third party contract, and at prices that were slightly higher than in 2009.Other wholesale revenues decreased $235 million due to reduced volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Lower sales volumes in MISO were due to available capacity serving increased retail sales in Ohio partially offset by increased sales under bilateral agreements in PJM.70The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,080Change in prices (87) 993Government Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 707Change in prices 14 721Net Increase in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Revenues $1,714Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions)POLR: Effect of increase in sales volumes $38Change in prices (312) (274)Other Wholesale: Effect of decrease in sales volumes (344)Change in prices 109 (235)Net Decrease in Wholesale Revenues $(509)Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased $1.4 billion in 2010 due to the following factors:Fuel costs increased $279 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased volumes consumed ($217 million) and higher unit prices ($62 million). The higher volumes consumed in 2010 were due to increased sales to direct and governmental aggregation customers, improved economic conditions and improved generating unit availability. The increase in unit prices was due primarily to increased coal transportation costs and to higher nuclear fuel unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2009 and 2010.Purchased power costs increased $728 million. Increased volumes purchased primarily relate to the assumption of a 1,300 MW third party contract from Met Ed and Penelec.Fossil operating costs decreased $12 million due primarily to lower labor and professional and contractor costs, which were partially offset by reduced gains from the sale of emission allowances and excess coal.Nuclear operating costs decreased $21 million due primarily to lower labor, consulting and contractor costs partially offset by increased nuclear property insurance and employee benefit costs. The year 2010 had one less refueling outage and fewer extended outages than the same period of 2009.Transmission expenses increased $25 million due primarily to increased costs in MISO of $170 million from higher network, ancillary and congestion costs, partially offset by lower PJM transmission expenses of $145 million due to lower congestion costs.Depreciation expense increased $5 million principally due to property additions that were placed in service since 2009.General taxes increased $12 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.Other operating expenses increased $406 million primarily due to a $382 million impairment charge ($240 million net of tax) related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units. Expenses also increased for professional and contractor services, billings from affiliated service companies, uncollectible customer accounts and agent fees, as FES continued to grow its retail business.71Other Expense Total other expense in 2010 was $95 million higher than the same period in 2009, primarily due to a $66 million decrease in nuclear decommissioning trust investment income and a $25 million increase in net interest expense from new long term debt issued in late 2009 combined with the restructuring of outstanding PCRBs that occurred throughout 2009 and 2010.Other 2010 Compared to 2009Financial results from other operating segments and reconciling items, including interest expense on holding company debt and corporate support services revenues and expenses, resulted in a $127 million decrease in earnings available to FirstEnergy in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease resulted primarily from increased income tax expense ($354 million) due in part to the absence of favorable tax settlements that occurred in 2009 ($200 million), partially offset by the absence of 2009 debt retirement costs in connection with the tender offer for holding company debt ($90 million), decreased interest expense associated with the debt retirement ($53 million) and increased investment income ($22 million).CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had $202 million of cash and cash equivalents available to fund investments, operations and capital expenditures. FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergys business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2012 and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Short term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short term borrowings. Long term cash needs may be met through issuances of debt and or equity securities. FirstEnergy expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long term capital markets. A material adverse change in operations, or in the availability of external financing sources, could impact FirstEnergys liquidity position and ability to fund its capital requirements. To mitigate risk, FirstEnergys business strategy stresses financial discipline and a strong focus on execution. Major elements include the expectation of: adequate cash from operations, opportunities for favorable long term earnings growth in the competitive generation markets, operational excellence, business plan execution, well positioned generation fleet, no speculative trading operations, appropriate long term commodity hedging positions, manageable capital expenditure program, adequately funded pension plan, minimal near term maturities of existing long term debt, commitment to a secure dividend and a successful merger integration.As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys net deficit in working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was principally due to currently payable long term debt, which, as of December 31, 2011, included the following:Currently Payable Long term Debt (In millions)Met Ed, Penelec, FGCO and NGC PCRBs supported by bank LOCs (1) $632AE Supply unsecured note 503FGCO and NGC unsecured PCRBs (1) 270WP unsecured note 80NGC collateralized lease obligation bonds 67Sinking fund requirements 52Other notes 17 $1,621(1) These PCRBs are classified as currently payable long term debt solely because the applicable Interest rate mode permits individual debt holders to put the respective debt back to the issuer prior to maturity.72Short Term BorrowingsFirstEnergy had no significant short term borrowings as of December 31, 2011, and short term borrowings of approximately $700 million as of December 31, 2010. FirstEnergys available liquidity as of January 31, 2012, was as follows: Company Type Maturity Commitment Available Liquidity (In millions)FirstEnergy(1) Revolving June 2016 $2,000 $1,395FES / AE Supply Revolving June 2016 2,500 2,498TrAIL Revolving Jan. 2013 450 450AGC Revolving Dec. 2013 50 Subtotal $5,000 $4,343 Cash 49 Total $5,000 $4,392(1) FE and the UtilitiesRevolving Credit FacilitiesFirstEnergy and FES / AE Supply FacilitiesFirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two five year syndicated revolving credit facilities with aggregate commitments of $4.5 billion (Facilities). An aggregate amount of $2 billion is available to be borrowed under a syndicated revolving credit facility (FirstEnergy Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower. The borrowers under the FirstEnergy Facility are FE, OE, Penn, CEI, TE, Met Ed, ATSI, JCP&L, MP, Penelec, PE and WP. An additional $2.5 billion is available to be borrowed by FES and AE Supply under a separate syndicated revolving credit facility (FES/AE Supply Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower.Commitments under each of the Facilities will be available until June 17, 2016, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the applicable borrowers, to up to two additional one year extensions. Generally, borrowings under each of the Facilities are available to each borrower separately and mature on the earlier of 364 days from the date of borrowing or the commitment termination date, as the same may be extended. Borrowings under each of the Facilities are subject to the usual and customary provisions for acceleration upon the occurrence of events of default, including a cross default for other indebtedness in excess of $100 million, as described further in Note 12, Capitalization.The following table summarizes the borrowing sub limits for each borrower under the Facilities, as well as the limitations on short term indebtedness applicable to each borrower under current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations as of December 31, 2011:73Borrower Revolving Credit Facility Sub Limit Regulatory and Other Short Term Debt Limitations (In millions) FE $2,000 (1) FES $1,500 (2) AE Supply $1,000 (2) OE $500 $500 CEI $500 $500 TE $500 $500 JCP&L $425 $411(3) Met Ed $300 $300(3) Penelec $300 $300(3) West Penn $200 $200(3) MP $150 $150(3) PE $150 $150(3) ATSI $100 $100 Penn $50 $33(3) (1) No limitations. (2) No limitation based upon blanket financing authorization from the FERC under existing open market tariffs. (3) Excluding amounts which may be borrowed under the regulated companies money pool. The entire amount of the FES/AE Supply Facility and $700 million of the FirstEnergy Facility, subject to each borrowers sub limit, is available for the issuance of LOCs expiring up to one year from the date of issuance. The stated amount of outstanding LOCs will count against total commitments available under each of the Facilities and against the applicable borrowers borrowing sub limit. Each of the Facilities contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65%, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt to total capitalization ratios (as defined under each of the Facilities) were as follows:Borrower FirstEnergy57.5%FES51.4%OE63.4%Penn42.8%CEI59.4%TE62.7%JCP&L43.6%Met Ed56.0%Penelec56.6%ATSI48.6%MP56.6%PE56.8%WP52.1%AE Supply38.5%As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy could issue additional debt of approximately $6.7 billion, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $3.6 billion, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by its revolving credit facility.The Facilities do not contain provisions that restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate payment of outstanding advances as a result of any change in credit ratings. Pricing is subject to pricing grids, whereby the borrowers cost of funds borrowed under the Facilities is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds.74AGC and TrAIL Revolving Credit FacilitiesFirstEnergy also has established $500 million of revolving credit facilities that are available to TrAIL ($450 million) and AGC ($50 million) until January 2013 and December 2013, respectively. Under the terms of its credit facility, outstanding debt of AGC may not exceed 65% of the sum of its debt and equity as of the last day of each calendar quarter. Outstanding debt for TrAIL may not exceed 65% of the sum of its debt and equity as of the last day of each calendar quarter through December 31, 2012. These provisions limit debt levels of these subsidiaries and also limit the net assets of each subsidiary that may be transferred to AE. As of December 31, 2011, the debt to total capitalization ratios for TrAIL and AGC (as defined under each of their credit facilities) were 48% and 51%, respectively.As of December 31, 2011, TrAIL could issue additional debt of approximately $222 million, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $341 million and AGC could issue additional debt of approximately $39 million, or recognize a reduction in equity of approximately $61 million, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by their credit facilities.FirstEnergy Money Pools FirstEnergys regulated companies also have the ability to borrow from each other and the holding company to meet their short term working capital requirements. A similar but separate arrangement exists among FirstEnergys unregulated companies. FESC administers these two money pools and tracks surplus funds of FirstEnergy and the respective regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from their respective pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings during 2011 was 0.44% per annum for the regulated companies money pool and 0.42% per annum for the unregulated companies money pool. Pollution Control Revenue BondsAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys currently payable long term debt included approximately $632 million (FES $558 million, Met Ed $29 million and Penelec $45 million) of variable interest rate PCRBs, the bondholders of which are entitled to the benefit of irrevocable direct pay bank LOCs. The interest rates on the PCRBs are reset daily or weekly. Bondholders can tender their PCRBs for mandatory purchase prior to maturity with the purchase price payable from remarketing proceeds or, if the PCRBs are not successfully remarketed, by drawings on the irrevocable direct pay LOCs. The subsidiary obligor is required to reimburse the applicable LOC bank for any such drawings or, if the LOC bank fails to honor its LOC for any reason, must itself pay the purchase price.The LOCs for FirstEnergy variable interest rate PCRBs were issued by the following banks as of December 31, 2011:LOC Bank Aggregate LOCAmount(1) LOC Termination Date Reimbursementsof LOC Draws Due (In millions) UBS $272 April 2014 April 2014CitiBank N.A. 165 June 2014 June 2014Wachovia Bank 153 March 2014 March 2014The Bank of Nova Scotia 49 April 2014 Multiple dates(2)Total $639 (1) Includes approximately $7 million of applicable interest coverage.(2) Shorter of 6 months or LOC termination date.During 2011, FirstEnergy redeemed or repurchased approximately $520.4 million principal amount of PCRBs, as summarized in the following table. Approximately $28.5 million of FGCO FMBs and $98.9 million of NGC FMBs associated with the PCRBs were returned for cancellation by the associated LOC providers. SubsidiariesAmount (In millions) AE Supply$53.0(1) FGCO$198.2(2) NGC$213.5(2) MP$70.2(1) (1) Includes $14.4 million of PCRBs redeemed for which MP and AE Supply are co obligors. (2) Subject to market conditions, these PCRBs are being held for future remarketing. 75Long Term Debt CapacityAs of December 31, 2011, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue approximately $2.7 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to $232 million and $20 million, respectively. As a result of the indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of approximately $376 million and $382 million, respectively, under provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31, 2011. In addition, based upon their respective FMB indentures, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of December 31, 2011, MP, PE and WP had the capability to issue approximately $1.1 billion of additional FMBs in the aggregate. These companies may be further limited by the financial covenants of the Facilities and subject to current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and or charter limitations. Based upon FGCOs net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indentures as of December 31, 2011, FGCO had the capability to issue $2.1 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. Based upon NGCs net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indenture as of December 31, 2011, NGC had the capability to issue $2.0 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. FirstEnergys access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the credit ratings of its securities. On March 21, 2011, S&P affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. On May 27, 2011, Fitch upgraded ratings for certain subsidiaries and revised the outlook to stable from negative for FirstEnergy and FES. On August 18, 2011, Moodys downgraded ratings for FES to Baa3 from Baa2 and revised FES outlook to stable. On January 18, 2012, Moodys upgraded ratings for TrAIL to A3 from Baa2. The following table displays FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries debt credit ratings as of February 24, 2012: Senior Secured Senior UnsecuredIssuer S&P Moodys Fitch S&P Moodys FitchFE BB+ Baa3 BBBFES BBB Baa3 BBBAE Supply BBB Baa3 BBB AGC BBB Baa3 BBBATSI BBB Baa1 A CEI BBB Baa1 BBB BBB Baa3 BBB JCP&L BBB Baa2 BBB+Met Ed BBB A3 A BBB Baa2 BBB+MP BBB+ Baa1 A BBB Baa3 BBB+OE BBB A3 BBB+ BBB Baa2 BBBPenelec BBB A3 BBB+ BBB Baa2 BBBPenn BBB+ A3 BBB+ PE BBB+ Baa1 A BBB Baa3 BBB+TE BBB Baa1 BBB TrAIL BBB A3 A WP BBB+ A3 A BBB Baa2 BBB+See Note 12, Capitalization of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on FirstEnergys and the Registrants long term debt and other long term obligations that were outstanding as of December 31, 2011.Changes in Cash PositionAs of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had $202 million of cash and cash equivalents compared to approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, FirstEnergy had approximately $79 million and $13 million, respectively, of restricted cash included in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.During 2011, FirstEnergy received $1.8 billion of cash dividends from its subsidiaries and paid $881 million in cash dividends to common shareholders, including $20 million paid in March by AE to its former shareholders.76Cash Flows From Operating ActivitiesFirstEnergys consolidated net cash from operating activities is provided primarily by its regulated distribution, regulated independent transmission and competitive energy services businesses (see Results of Operations above). Net cash provided from operating activities was $3.1 billion in 2011, $3.1 billion in 2010 and $2.5 billion in 2009, as summarized in the following table:Operating Cash Flows 2011 2010 2009 (In millions)Net income $869 $718 $856Non cash charges 2,424 2,343 2,095Pension trust contributions (372) (500)Working capital and other 142 15 14 $3,063 $3,076 $2,465The 2011 increase in non cash charges is primarily due to increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges from higher actuarial losses ($317 million), increased deferred taxes resulting from bonus depreciation ($348 million) and increased depreciation attributable to the acquired Allegheny companies ($353 million). These increases were partially offset by gains from the sale of assets, mostly due to the sale of Signal Peak ($543 million), and lower amortization of regulatory assets from reduced net PJM transmission cost and transition cost recovery ($393 million). The 2011 increase in cash flows from working capital and other is primarily due to decreased receivables from higher customer collections ($324 million) partially offset by the absence of interest rate swap activity transacted in 2010 ($129 million).Cash Flows From Financing ActivitiesIn 2011, cash used for financing activities was $2,924 million compared to $983 million in 2010. The following table summarizes security issuances (net of any discounts) and redemptions:Securities Issued or Redeemed 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) New Issues PCRBs $272 $740 $940Long term revolving credit 70 Senior secured notes 350 297FMBs 398Unsecured Notes 262 9 2,997 $604 $1,099 $4,632Redemptions PCRBs $792 $741 $884Long term revolving credit 495 Senior secured notes 460 141 217FMBs 15 32 1Unsecured notes 147 101 1,508 $1,909 $1,015 $2,610 Net repayment of short term borrowings $(700) $(378) $(1,246)Cash Flows From Investing ActivitiesCash used for investing activities in 2011 resulted from cash used for property additions, partially offset by the cash acquired in the Allegheny merger and proceeds from asset sales. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by business segment:77Summary of Cash FlowsProvided from (Used for) Investing Activities PropertyAdditions Investments Other Total (In millions) Sources (Uses) 2011 Regulated distribution $(1,060) $30 $(83) $(1,113)Competitive energy services (927) 545 3 (379)Regulated independent transmission (192) (3) (195)Cash received in Allegheny merger 590 590Other and reconciling adjustments (99) 223 17 141Total $(2,278) $1,388 $(66) $(956) 2010 Regulated distribution $(681) $96 $17 $(568)Competitive energy services (1,159) (43) (51) (1,253)Regulated independent transmission (64) (4) (68)Other and reconciling adjustments (59) (30) 30 (59)Total $(1,963) $23 $(8) $(1,948) 2009 Regulated distribution $(718) $39 $(45) $(724)Competitive energy services (1,412) (8) (19) (1,439)Regulated independent transmission (32) (1) (33)Other and reconciling adjustments (41) (27) 79 11Total $(2,203) $4 $14 $(2,185)Net cash used for investing activities in 2011 decreased by $992 million compared to 2010. The decrease was principally due to cash acquired in the Allegheny merger ($590 million) and an increase in proceeds from asset sales ($723 million), partially offset by increased property additions ($315 million).Our capital spending for 2012 is expected to be approximately $2.1 billion (excluding nuclear fuel). For 2013, we anticipate baseline capital expenditures of approximately $2.0 billion, which exclude any potential additional strategic opportunities, future mandated spending, energy efficiency or environmental spending relating to MATS. Planned capital initiatives are intended to promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Our capital investments for additional nuclear fuel are expected to be $280 million and $219 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively.CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSAs of December 31, 2011, our estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations that we consider firm obligations are as follows:Contractual Obligations Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter (In millions)Long term debt(1) $17,005 $1,605 $2,192 $2,688 $10,520Interest on long term debt(2) 12,071 975 1,804 1,548 7,744Operating leases(3) 3,147 258 492 598 1,799Fuel and purchased power(4) 32,877 3,598 5,589 4,616 19,074Capital expenditures 2,715 681 984 638 412Pension funding 1,030 231 799 Other(5) 263 28 105 47 83Total $69,108 $7,145 $11,397 $10,934 $39,632(1) Excludes unamortized discounts and premiums and fair value accounting adjustments.(2) Interest on variable rate debt based on rates as of December 31, 2011.(3) See Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4) Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements.(5) Includes amounts for capital leases (see Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and contingent tax liabilities (see Note 5, Taxes of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).78Excluded from the data shown above are estimates for the cash outlays stemming from power purchase contracts entered into by most of the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. The exact amounts will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, but based on numerous planning assumptions, management estimates an amount of $5.4 billion in 2012, $1.8 billion of which relates to contracts with FES.GUARANTEES AND OTHER ASSURANCESAs part of normal business activities, FirstEnergy enters into various agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries to provide financial or performance assurances to third parties. FirstEnergy guarantees energy and energy related payments of its subsidiaries involved in energy commodity activities principally to facilitate or hedge normal physical transactions involving electricity, gas, emission allowances and coal. FirstEnergy also provides credit support to various providers for the financing or refinancing by subsidiaries of costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. These agreements include provisions for parent guarantees, surety bonds and or LOCs to be issued by FirstEnergy on behalf of one or more of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain contracts may contain collateral provisions that are contingent upon either FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries credit ratings. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys maximum exposure to potential future payments under outstanding guarantees and other assurances approximated $3.7 billion, as summarized below:Guarantees and Other Assurances Maximum Exposure (In millions)FirstEnergy Guarantees on Behalf of its Subsidiaries Energy and Energy Related Contracts(1) $268LOC (long term debt) interest coverage(2) 5OVEC obligations 300Other(3) 301 874 Subsidiaries Guarantees Energy and Energy Related Contracts 141LOC (long term debt) interest coverage(2) 2FES guarantee of NGCs nuclear property insurance 79FES guarantee of FGCOs sale and leaseback obligations 2,286Other 12 2,520 Surety Bonds 151LOCs(4) 189 340Total Guarantees and Other Assurances $3,734(1) Issued for open ended terms, with a 10 day termination right by FirstEnergy.(2) Reflects the interest coverage portion of LOCs issued in support of floating rate PCRBs with various maturities. The principal amount of floating rate PCRBs of $632 million is reflected in currently payable long term debt on FirstEnergys consolidated balance sheets.(3) Includes guarantees of $95 million for nuclear decommissioning funding assurances, $161 million supporting OEs sale and leaseback arrangement, and $36 million for railcar leases.(4) Includes $36 million issued for various terms pursuant to capacity available under FirstEnergys revolving credit facility, $116 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Beaver Valley Unit 2 by OE and $37 million pledged in connection with the sale and leaseback of Perry by OE.Most of FirstEnergys surety bonds are backed by various indemnities common within the insurance industry. Surety bonds and related guarantees of $151 million provide additional assurance to outside parties that contractual and statutory obligations will be met in a number of areas including construction contracts, environmental commitments and various retail transactions. While the types of guarantees discussed above are normally parental commitments for the future payment of subsidiary obligations, subsequent to the occurrence of a senior unsecured credit rating downgrade to below S&Ps BBB and Moodys Baa3 and lower, or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of collateral or accelerated payments may be required of the subsidiary. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergys exposure to additional credit contingent contractual obligations was $636 million, as shown below: 79Collateral Provisions FES AE Supply Utilities Total (In millions)Credit rating downgrade to below investment grade (1) $468 $8 $57 $533Material adverse event (2) 31 60 12 103Total $499 $68 $69 $636(1) Includes $205 million and $47 million that are also considered accelerations of payment or funding obligations for FES and the Utilities, respectively.(2) Includes $31 million that is also considered an acceleration of payment or funding obligation at FES.Certain bilateral non affiliate contracts entered into by the Competitive Energy Services segment contain margining provisions that require posting of collateral. Based on FES and AE Supplys power portfolios exposure as of December 31, 2011, FES and AE Supply have posted collateral of $88 million and $1 million, respectively. Depending on the volume of forward contracts and future price movements, higher amounts for margining could be required. Not included in the preceding information is potential collateral arising from the PSAs between FES or AE Supply and affiliated utilities in the Regulated Distribution Segment. As of December 31, 2011, neither FES nor AE Supply had any collateral posted with their affiliates. In the event of a senior unsecured credit rating downgrade to below S&Ps BB or Moodys Ba3, FES and AE Supply would be required to post $49 million and $24 million, respectively.FES debt obligations are generally guaranteed by its subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, and FES guarantees the debt obligations of each of FGCO and NGC. Accordingly, present and future holders of indebtedness of FES, FGCO and NGC would have claims against each of FES, FGCO and NGC, regardless of whether their primary obligor is FES, FGCO or NGC. Signal Peak and Global Rail are borrowers under a $350 million syndicated two year senior secured term loan facility due in October 2012. FirstEnergy, together with WMB Loan Ventures, LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II, LLC, the entities that previously shared ownership in the borrowers with FEV, have provided a guaranty of the borrowers obligations under the facility. On October 18, 2011, FEV sold a portion of its ownership interest in Signal Peak and Global Rail (see Note 8, Variable Interest Entities). Following the sale, FirstEnergy, WMB Loan Ventures, LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II, LLC, together with Global Mining Group, LLC and Global Holding will continue to guarantee the borrowers obligations until either the facility is replaced with non recourse financing (no later than June 30, 2012) or replaced with appropriate recourse financing no earlier than September 4, 2012, that provides for separate guarantees from each owner in proportion with each equity owners percentage ownership in the joint venture. In addition, FEV, Global Mining Group, LLC and Global Holding, the entities that own direct and indirect equity interests in the borrowers, have pledged those interests to the lenders under the current facility as collateral.OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSFES and the Ohio Companies have obligations that are not included on their Consolidated Balance Sheets related to sale and leaseback arrangements involving the Bruce Mansfield Plant, Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2, which are satisfied through operating lease payments. The total present value of these sale and leaseback operating lease commitments, net of trust investments, was $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011. See Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on FirstEnergys and the Registrants leases.MARKET RISK INFORMATIONFirstEnergy uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskFirstEnergy is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Management Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. FirstEnergy uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FirstEnergy relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FirstEnergy uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 are summarized by year in the following table:80Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (211) (51) (32) (22) (316)Prices based on models (21) 8 31 18Total(3) $(232) $(51) $(32) $(22) $8 $31 $(298)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(301) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are primarily related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.FirstEnergy performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $13 million during the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskFirstEnergys exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities. As discussed in Note 6, Leases of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, FirstEnergys investments in capital trusts effectively reduce future lease obligations, also reducing interest rate risk.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $89 $100 $110 $76 $23 $2,008 $2,406 $2,456Average interest rate 8.8% 8.9% 9.0% 9.5% 10.3% 5.4% 6.0% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $751 $964 $866 $1,330 $891 $11,628 $16,430 $18,585Average interest rate 7.3% 5.9% 5.4% 4.7% 5.9% 6.2% 6.1% Variable rate $150 $585 $735 $735Average interest rate 1.8% 0.1% 0.4% Equity Price RiskFirstEnergy provides noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. FirstEnergy provides a portion of non contributory pre retirement basic life insurance for employees who are eligible to retire. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments, are also available upon retirement to certain employees, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy also has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability related benefits. The benefit plan assets and obligations are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date or as significant triggering events occur. As of December 31, 2011, the FirstEnergy pension plan was invested in approximately 19% of equity securities, 48% of fixed income securities, 21% of absolute return strategies, 6% of real estate, 2% of private equity and 4% of cash. A decline in the value of pension plan assets could result in additional funding requirements. FirstEnergys funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. During 2011, FirstEnergy made pre tax contributions to its qualified pension plans of $372 million. FirstEnergy made an additional $600 million pre tax contribution to the qualified pension plan on January 5, 2012. NDT funds have been established to satisfy NGCs and certain of the Utilities nuclear decommissioning obligations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 79% of the funds were invested in fixed income securities, 12% of the funds were invested in equity 81securities and 9% were invested in short term investments, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. The investments are carried at their market values of approximately $1,699 million, $258 million and $207 million for fixed income securities, equity securities and short term investments, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding ($52) million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $26 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. The decommissioning trusts of JCP&L, Met Ed and Penelec are subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. NGC, OE and TE recognized in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of FirstEnergys NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million, $4 million and $1 million was contributed to the NDTs of JCP&L, OE and TE, respectively. FENOC has submitted a $95 million parental guarantee to the NRC for a short fall in nuclear decommissioning funding to Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry.CREDIT RISKCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. FirstEnergy evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. FirstEnergy may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. FirstEnergy monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.Wholesale Credit RiskFirstEnergy measures wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for derivatives in power, natural gas, coal and emission allowances, adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where FirstEnergy has a legally enforceable right of set off. FirstEnergy monitors and manages the credit risk of wholesale marketing, risk management and energy transacting operations through credit policies and procedures, which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral and the use of master netting agreements. FirstEnergy aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (S&P).Retail Credit RiskFirstEnergy is exposed to retail credit risk through competitive electricity activities, which serve residential, commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on contractual obligations or fail to pay for service rendered. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of customer accounts receivable balances, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve customers. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit approval policies, monitoring customer exposures and the use of credit mitigation measures such as deposits in the form of LOCs, cash or prepayment arrangements. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, FirstEnergys retail credit risk may be adversely impacted.REGULATORY MATTERSRegulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent amounts that are expected to be credited to customers through future regulated rates or amounts collected from customers for costs not yet incurred. FirstEnergy and the Utilities net their regulatory assets and liabilities based on federal and state jurisdictions. 82Net regulatory assets on FirstEnergys and the Utility Registrants Consolidated Balance Sheets are comprised of the following:Regulatory Assets FirstEnergy OE CEI TE JCP&L Met Ed Penelec (In millions)December 31, 2011 Regulatory transition costs $608 $ $ $ $424 $105 $79Customer receivables for future income taxes 508 42 1 2 29 129 145Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (210) (44) (99) (67)Asset removal costs (240) (34) (60) (23) (147) PJM transmission costs 340 (3) (3) (1) 181 63Deferred generation costs 382 125 224 37 (23) (11)Distribution costs 267 146 73 48 Other 375 87 60 7 146 36 Total $2,030 $363 $295 $70 $408 $329 $209December 31, 2010 Regulatory transition costs $770 $ $ $ $591 $131 $43Customer receivables for future income taxes 328 52 2 1 30 113 130Nuclear decommissioning, decontamination and spent fuel disposal costs (184) (31) (92) (61)Asset removal costs (237) (24) (47) (19) (147) PJM transmission costs 183 131 52Deferred generation costs 386 125 226 35 Distribution costs 426 216 155 55 Other 158 34 34 1 71 13 (1)Total $1,830 $403 $370 $73 $514 $296 $163Additionally, FirstEnergy had $381 million of net regulatory liabilities as of December 31, 2011, including $366 million of net regulatory liabilities attributable to Allegheny that are primarily related to asset removal costs. Net regulatory liabilities are classified within Other Noncurrent Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.Regulatory assets that do not earn a current return as of December 31, 2011 totaled approximately $413 million. Regulatory assets that do not earn a return are primarily comprised of certain regulatory transition and PJM transmission costs for Met Ed and Penelec of $182 million and $115 million, respectively, that are expected to be recovered by 2020, and certain storm damage costs and pension and OPEB costs incurred by JCP&L of $122 million that are expected to be recovered by 2026. RELIABILITY MATTERS Federally enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, AE Supply, FGCO, FENOC, ATSI and TrAIL. The NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day to day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to eight regional entities, including RFC. All of FirstEnergys facilities are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by the RFC. FirstEnergy believes that it is in compliance with all currently effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases self reporting an item to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying with future new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time; however, 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the future reliability standards be recovered in rates. Any future inability on FirstEnergys part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 9, 2008, a transformer at JCP&Ls Oceanview substation failed, resulting in an outage on certain bulk electric system (transmission voltage) lines out of the Oceanview and Atlantic substations resulting in customers losing power for up to eleven 83hours. On March 31, 2009, the NERC initiated a Compliance Violation Investigation in order to determine JCP&Ls contribution to the electrical event and to review any potential violation of NERC Reliability Standards associated with the event. NERC has submitted first and second Requests for Information regarding this and another related matter. JCP&L is complying with these requests. JCP&L is not able to predict what actions, if any, the NERC may take with respect to this matter. On August 23, 2010, FirstEnergy self reported to RFC a vegetation encroachment event on a Met Ed 230 kV line. This event did not result in a fault, outage, operation of protective equipment, or any other meaningful electric effect on any FirstEnergy transmission facilities or systems. On August 25, 2010, RFC issued a notice of enforcement to investigate the incident. FirstEnergy submitted a data response to RFC on September 27, 2010. On July 8, 2011, RFC and Met Ed signed a settlement agreement to resolve all outstanding issues related to the vegetation encroachment event. The settlement calls for Met Ed to pay a penalty of $650,000, and for FirstEnergy to perform certain mitigating actions. These mitigating actions include inspecting FirstEnergys transmission system using LiDAR technology, and reporting the results of inspections, and any follow up work, to RFC. FirstEnergy was performing the LiDAR work in response to certain other industry directives issued by NERC in 2010. NERC subsequently approved the settlement agreement and, on September 30, 2011, submitted the approved settlement to FERC for final approval. FERC approved the settlement agreement on October 28, 2011. Met Ed subsequently paid the $650,000 penalty and, on December 31, 2011, RFC sent written notice that this matter has been closed. In 2011, RFC performed routine compliance audits of parts of FirstEnergys bulk power system and generally found the audited systems and process to be in full compliance with all audited reliability standards. RFC will perform additional audits in 2012.MARYLANDBy statute enacted in 2007, the obligation of Maryland utilities to provide SOS to residential and small commercial customers, in exchange for recovery of their costs plus a reasonable profit, was extended indefinitely. The legislation also established a 5 year cycle (to begin in 2008) for the MDPSC to report to the legislature on the status of SOS. PE now conducts rolling auctions to procure the power supply necessary to serve its customer load pursuant to a plan approved by the MDPSC. However, the terms on which PE will provide SOS to residential customers after the current settlement expires at the end of 2012 will depend on developments with respect to SOS in Maryland over the coming year, including but not limited to, possible MDPSC decisions in the proceedings discussed below.The MDPSC opened a new docket in August 2007 to consider matters relating to possible managed portfolio approaches to SOS and other matters. Phase II of the case addressed utility purchases or construction of generation, bidding for procurement of demand response resources and possible alternatives if the TrAIL and PATH projects were delayed or defeated. It is unclear when the MDPSC will issue its findings in this proceeding.In September 2009, the MDPSC opened a new proceeding to receive and consider proposals for construction of new generation resources in Maryland. In December 2009, Governor Martin OMalley filed a letter in this proceeding in which he characterized the electricity market in Maryland as a failure and urged the MDPSC to use its existing authority to order the construction of new generation in Maryland, vary the means used by utilities to procure generation and include more renewables in the generation mix. In December 2010, the MDPSC issued an order soliciting comments on a model RFP for solicitation of long term energy commitments by Maryland electric utilities. PE and numerous other parties filed comments, and on September 29, 2011, the MDPSC issued an order requiring the utilities to issue the RFP crafted by the MDPSC by October 7, 2011. The RFPs were issued by the utilities as ordered by the MDPSC. The order, as amended, indicated that bids were due by January 20, 2012, and that the MDPSC would be the entity evaluating all bids. The Chairman of the MDPSC has stated publicly that several bids were received, but no other information was released. After receipt of further comments from interested parties, including PE, on January 13, 2012, a hearing on whether more generation is needed, irrespective of what bids may have been received, was held on January 31, 2012. There has been no further action on this matter.In September 2007, the MDPSC issued an order that required the Maryland utilities to file detailed plans for how they will meet the EmPOWER Maryland proposal that electric consumption be reduced by 10% and electricity demand be reduced by 15%, in each case by 2015.The Maryland legislature in 2008 adopted a statute codifying the EmPOWER Maryland goals. In 2008, PE filed its comprehensive plans for attempting to achieve those goals, asking the MDPSC to approve programs for residential, commercial, industrial, and governmental customers, as well as a customer education program. The MDPSC ultimately approved the programs in August 2009 after certain modifications had been made as required by the MDPSC, and approved cost recovery for the programs in October 2009. Expenditures were estimated to be approximately $101 million for the PE programs for the period of 2009 to 2015 and would be recovered over that six year period. Meanwhile, after extensive meetings with the MDPSC Staff and other stakeholders, PEs plans for additional and improved programs for the period 2012 2014 were filed on August 31, 2011. The MDPSC held hearings on PEs and the other utilities plans in October 2011, and on December 22, 2011, issued an order approving Potomac Edisons plan with various modifications and follow up assignments. On January 23, 2012, PE filed a Request for Rehearing because additional facts not considered by the MDPSC demonstrate, among other things, that conservation voltage reduction program expenditures should be accorded cost recovery through the EmPOWER surcharge, as has been provided for all other EmPOWER programs as opposed to recovery of those expenditures being addressed in a future base rate case as the MDPSC found in its order. 84In March 2009, the MDPSC issued an order temporarily suspending the right of all electric and gas utilities in the state to terminate service to residential customers for non payment of bills. The MDPSC subsequently issued an order making various rule changes relating to terminations, payment plans, and customer deposits that make it more difficult for Maryland utilities to collect deposits or to terminate service for non payment. The MDPSC is continuing to collect data on payment plan and related issues and has adopted regulations that expand the summer and winter severe weather termination moratoria when temperatures are very high or very low, from one day, as provided by statute, to three days on each occurrence.The Maryland legislature passed a bill on April 11, 2011, which requires the MDPSC to promulgate rules by July 1, 2012 that address service interruptions, downed wire response, customer communication, vegetation management, equipment inspection, and annual reporting. In crafting the regulations, the legislation directs the MDPSC to consider cost effectiveness, and provides that the MDPSC may adopt different standards for different utilities based on such factors as system design and existing infrastructure, geography, and customer density. Beginning in July 2013, the MDPSC is required to assess each utilitys compliance with the new rules, and may assess penalties of up to $25,000 per day per violation. The MDPSC convened a working group of utilities, regulators, and other interested stakeholders to address the topics of the proposed rules. A draft of the rules was filed, along with the report of the working group, on October 27, 2011. Hearings to consider the rules and comments occurred over four days between December 8 and 15, 2011, after which revised rules were sent for legislative review. The proposed rules were published in the Maryland Register on February 24, 2012, and a deadline of March 26, 2012, was set for the filing of further comments. A further hearing is required before the rules could become final. Separately, on July 7, 2011, the MDPSC adopted draft rules requiring monitoring and inspections for contact voltage. The draft rules were published in September, 2011. After a further hearing in October, 2011, the final rules were re published and became effective on November 28, 2011.NEW JERSEYOn September 8, 2011, the Division of Rate Counsel filed a Petition with the NJBPU asserting that it has reason to believe that JCP&L is earning an unreasonable return on its New Jersey jurisdictional rate base. The Division of Rate Counsel requests that the NJBPU order JCP&L to file a base rate case petition so that the NJBPU may determine whether JCP&Ls current rates for electric service are just and reasonable. JCP&L filed an answer to the Petition on September 28, 2011, stating, inter alia, that the Division of Rate Counsel analysis upon which it premises its Petition contains errors and inaccuracies, that JCP&Ls achieved return on equity is currently within a reasonable range, and that there is no reason for the NJBPU to require JCP&L to file a base rate case at this time. On November 30, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that the matter be assigned to the NJBPU President to act as presiding officer to set and modify the schedule for this matter as appropriate, decide upon motions, and otherwise control the conduct of this case, without the need for full Board approval. The matter is pending and a schedule for further proceedings has not yet been established. On September 22, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that JCP&L hire a Special Reliability Master, subject to NJBPU approval, to evaluate JCP&Ls design, operating, maintenance and performance standards as they pertain to the Morristown, New Jersey underground electric distribution system, and make recommendations to JCP&L and the NJBPU on the appropriate courses of action necessary to ensure adequate reliability and safety in the Morristown underground network. On October 12, 2011, the Special Reliability Master was selected and on January 31, 2012, the project report was submitted to the Company and NJBPU Staff. On February 10, 2012, the NJBPU accepted the report and directed the Staff to present recommendations on March 12, 2012, on actions required by JCP&L to ensure the safe, reliable operation of the Morristown network. Pursuant to a formal Notice issued by the NJBPU on September 14, 2011, public hearings were held on September 26 and 27, 2011, to solicit public comments regarding the state of preparedness and responsiveness of the local electric distribution companies prior to, during and after Hurricane Irene. By subsequent Notice issued September 28, 2011, additional hearings were held in October 2011. Additionally, the NJBPU accepted written comments through October 31, 2011 related to this inquiry. On December 4, 2011, the NJBPU Division of Reliability and Security issued a Request for Qualifications soliciting bid proposals from qualified consulting firms to provide expertise in the review and evaluation of New Jerseys electric distribution companies preparation and restoration to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. Responsive bids were submitted on January 20, 2012, and the report of selected bidder is to be submitted to the NJPBU 120 days from the date the contract is awarded. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff filed a report of its preliminary findings and recommendations with respect to the electric utility companies planning and response to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. The NJBPU has not indicated what additional action, if any, may be taken as a result of information obtained through this process.OHIOThe Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2014. The material terms of the ESP include: generation supplied through a CBP commencing June 1, 2011; a load cap of no less than 80%, which also applies to tranches assigned post auction; a 6% generation discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (FES is one of the wholesale suppliers to the Ohio Companies); no increase in base distribution rates through May 31, 2014; and a new distribution rider, Rider DCR, to recover a return of, and on, capital investments in the delivery system. The Ohio Companies also agreed not to recover from retail customers certain costs related to transmission cost allocations by PJM as a result of ATSIs integration into PJM for the longer of the five year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2015 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million dependent on the outcome of certain PJM proceedings, agreed to establish a $12 million fund to assist low income customers over the term of the ESP and agreed to 85additional matters related to energy efficiency and alternative energy requirements.Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately 166,000 MWH in 2009, 290,000 MWH in 2010, 410,000 MWH in 2011, 470,000 MWH in 2012 and 530,000 MWH in 2013, with additional savings required through 2025. Utilities were also required to reduce peak demand in 2009 by 1%, with an additional 0.75% reduction each year thereafter through 2018.In December 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required three year portfolio plan seeking approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand reduction requirements for the 2010 2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers in 2012. The PUCO issued an Opinion and Order generally approving the Ohio Companies three year plan, and the Ohio Companies are in the process of implementing those programs included in the Plan. OE fell short of its statutory 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks and therefore, on January 11, 2011, it requested that its 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks be amended to actual levels achieved in 2010. Moreover, because the PUCO indicated, when approving the 2009 benchmark request, that it would modify the Ohio Companies 2010 (and 2011 and 2012) energy efficiency benchmarks when addressing the portfolio plan, the Ohio Companies were not certain of their 2010 energy efficiency obligations. Therefore, CEI and TE (each of which achieved its 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction statutory benchmarks) also requested an amendment if and only to the degree one was deemed necessary to bring them into compliance with their yet to be defined modified benchmarks. On May 19, 2011, the PUCO granted the request to reduce the 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reductions to the level achieved in 2010 for OE, while finding that the motion was moot for CEI and TE. On June 2, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application for rehearing to clarify the decision related to CEI and TE. On July 27, 2011, the PUCO denied that application for rehearing, but clarified that CEI and TE could apply for an amendment in the future for the 2010 benchmarks should it be necessary to do so. Failure to comply with the benchmarks or to obtain such an amendment may subject the Ohio Companies to an assessment of a penalty by the PUCO. In addition to approving the programs included in the plan, with only minor modifications, the PUCO authorized the Ohio Companies to recover all costs related to the original CFL program that the Ohio Companies had previously suspended at the request of the PUCO. Applications for Rehearing were filed by the Ohio Companies, Ohio Energy Group and Nucor Steel Marion, Inc. on April 22, 2011, regarding portions of the PUCOs decision, including the method for calculating savings and certain changes made by the PUCO to specific programs. On September 7, 2011, the PUCO denied those applications for rehearing. The PUCO also included a new standard for compliance with the statutory energy efficiency benchmarks by requiring electric distribution companies to offer all available cost effective energy efficiency opportunities regardless of their level of compliance with the benchmarks as set forth in the statute. On October 7, 2011, the Ohio Companies, the Industrial Energy Users Ohio, and the Ohio Energy Group filed applications for rehearing, arguing that the PUCOS new standard is unlawful. The Ohio Companies also asked the PUCO to withdraw its amendment of CEIs and TEs 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks. The PUCO did not rule on the Applications for Rehearing within thirty days, thus denying them by operation of law. On December 30, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed a notice of appeal with the Supreme Court of Ohio, challenging the PUCOs new standard. No procedural schedule has been established. Additionally, under SB221, electric utilities and electric service companies are required to serve part of their load in 2011 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 1.00% of the average of the KWH they served in 2008 2010; in 2012 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 1.50% of the average of the KWH they served in 2009 2011; and in 2013 from renewable energy resources equivalent to 2.00% of the average of the KWH they served in 2010 2012. In August and October 2009, the Ohio Companies conducted RFPs to secure RECs. The RECs acquired through these two RFPs were used to help meet the renewable energy requirements established under SB221 for 2009, 2010 and 2011. In March 2010, the PUCO found that there was an insufficient quantity of solar energy resources reasonably available in the market and reduced the Ohio Companies aggregate 2009 benchmark to the level of SRECs the Ohio Companies acquired through their 2009 RFP processes, provided the Ohio Companies 2010 alternative energy requirements be increased to include the shortfall for the 2009 solar REC benchmark. On April 15, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed an application seeking an amendment to each of their 2010 alternative energy requirements for solar RECs generated in Ohio on the basis that an insufficient quantity of solar resources are available in the market but reflecting solar RECs that they have obtained and providing additional information regarding efforts to secure solar RECs. On August 3, 2011, the PUCO granted the Ohio Companies force majeure request for 2010 and increased their 2011 benchmark by the amount of SRECs generated in Ohio that the Ohio Companies were short in 2010. On September 2, 2011, the Environmental Law and Policy Center and Nucor Steel Marion, Inc. filed applications for rehearing. The Ohio Companies filed their response on September 12, 2011. These applications for rehearing were denied by the PUCO on September 20, 2011, but as part of its Entry on Rehearing the PUCO opened a new docket to review the Ohio Companies alternative energy recovery rider. Separately, one party has filed a request that the PUCO audit the cost of the Ohio Companies compliance with the alternative energy requirements and the Ohio Companies compliance with Ohio law. The PUCO selected auditors to perform a financial and a management audit, and final audit reports are to be filed with the PUCO by May 15, 2012. In August 2011, the Ohio Companies conducted two RFP processes to obtain RECs to meet the statutory benchmarks for 2011 and beyond. PENNSYLVANIAThe PPUC entered an Order on March 3, 2010 that denied the recovery of marginal transmission losses through the TSC rider for the period of June 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, directed Met Ed and Penelec to submit a new tariff or tariff supplement reflecting the removal of marginal transmission losses from the TSC, and instructed Met Ed and Penelec to work with the various intervening parties to file a recommendation to the PPUC regarding the establishment of a separate account for all marginal transmission losses 86collected from customers plus interest to be used to mitigate future generation rate increases beginning January 1, 2011. In March 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition with the PPUC requesting that it stay the portion of the March 3, 2010 Order requiring the filing of tariff supplements to end collection of costs for marginal transmission losses. The PPUC granted the requested stay until December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the PPUCs order, Met Ed and Penelec filed plans to establish separate accounts for marginal transmission loss revenues and related interest and carrying charges. Pursuant to the plan approved by the PPUC, Met Ed and Penelec began to refund those amounts to customers in January 2011, and the refunds are continuing over a 29 month period until the full amounts previously recovered for marginal transmission loses are refunded. In April 2010, Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania appealing the PPUCs March 3, 2010 Order. On June 14, 2011, the Commonwealth Court issued an opinion and order affirming the PPUCs Order to the extent that it holds that line loss costs are not transmission costs and, therefore, the approximately $254 million in marginal transmission losses and associated carrying charges for the period prior to January 1, 2011, are not recoverable under Met Eds and Penelecs TSC riders. Met Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and also a complaint seeking relief in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, which was subsequently amended. The PPUC filed a Motion to Dismiss Met Eds and Penelecs Amended Complaint on September 15, 2011. Met Ed and Penelec filed a Responsive brief in Opposition to the PPUCs Motion to Dismiss on October 11, 2011. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, Met Ed and Penelec believe that they should ultimately prevail through the judicial process and therefore expect to fully recover the approximately $254 million ($189 million for Met Ed and $65 million for Penelec) in marginal transmission losses for the period prior to January 1, 2011.In each of May 2008, 2009 and 2010, the PPUC approved Met Eds and Penelecs annual updates to their TSC rider for the annual periods between June 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The PPUCs approval in May 2010 authorized an increase to the TSC for Met Eds customers to provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010. In February 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its DSP for the period June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. In July 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUCs Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penns June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs.Pennsylvania adopted Act 129 in 2008 to address issues such as: energy efficiency and peak load reduction; generation procurement; time of use rates; smart meters; and alternative energy. Among other things, Act 129 required utilities to file with the PPUC an energy efficiency and peak load reduction plan, (EE&C Plan), by July 1, 2009, setting forth the utilities plans to reduce energy consumption by a minimum of 1% and 3% by May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2013, respectively, and to reduce peak demand by a minimum of 4.5% by May 31, 2013. Act 129 provides for potentially significant financial penalties to be assessed upon utilities that fail to achieve the required reductions in consumption and peak demand. Act 129 also required utilities to file a SMIP with the PPUC. The PPUC entered an Order in February 2010 giving final approval to all aspects of the EE&C Plans of Met Ed, Penelec and Penn and the tariff rider became effective March 1, 2010. On February 18, 2011, the companies filed a petition to approve their First Amended EE&C Plans. On June 28, 2011, a hearing on the petition was held before an ALJ. On December 15, 2011, the ALJ recommended that the amended plans be approved as proposed, and on January 12, 2012, the Commission approved the plans. WP filed its original EE&C Plan in June 2009, which the PPUC approved, in large part, by Opinion and Order entered in October 2009. In September 2010, WP filed an amended EE&C Plan that is less reliant on smart meter deployment, which the PPUC approved in January 2011.On August 9, 2011, WP filed a petition to approve its Second Amended EE&C Plan. The proposed Second Revised Plan includes measures and a new program and implementation strategies consistent with the successful EE&C programs of Met Ed, Penelec and Penn that are designed to enable WP to achieve the post 2011 Act 129 EE&C requirements. On January 6, 2012, a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues was filed by the parties to the proceeding.The Pennsylvania Companies submitted a preliminary report on July 15, 2011, and a final report on November 15, 2011, in which they reported on their compliance with statutory May 31, 2011, energy efficiency benchmarks. Met Ed, Penelec and Penn achieved the 2011 benchmarks; however WP has been unable to provide final results because several customers are still accumulating necessary documentation for projects that may qualify for inclusion in the final results. Preliminary numbers indicate that WP did not achieve its 2011 benchmark and it is not known at this time whether WP will be subject to a fine for failure to achieve the benchmark. WP is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate any possible loss or range of loss. In December 2009, WP filed a motion to reopen the evidentiary record to submit an alternative smart meter plan proposing, among other things, a less rapid deployment of smart meters.In light of the significant expenditures that would be associated with its smart meter deployment plans and related infrastructure upgrades, as well as its evaluation of recent PPUC decisions approving less rapid deployment proposals by other utilities, WP re 87evaluated its Act 129 compliance strategy, including both its plans with respect to smart meter deployment and certain smart meter dependent aspects of the EE&C Plan. In October 2010, WP and Pennsylvanias OCA filed a Joint Petition for Settlement addressing WPs smart meter implementation plan with the PPUC. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP proposed to decelerate its previously contemplated smart meter deployment schedule and to target the installation of approximately 25,000 smart meters in support of its EE&C Plan, based on customer requests, by mid 2012. The proposed settlement also contemplates that WP take advantage of the 30 month grace period authorized by the PPUC to continue WPs efforts to re evaluate full scale smart meter deployment plans. WP currently anticipates filing its plan for full scale deployment of smart meters in June 2012. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP would be permitted to recover certain previously incurred and anticipated smart meter related expenditures through a levelized customer surcharge, with certain expenditures amortized over a ten year period. Additionally, WP would be permitted to seek recovery of certain other costs as part of its revised SMIP that it currently intends to file in June 2012, or in a future base distribution rate case.Following additional proceedings, on March 9, 2011, WP submitted an Amended Joint Petition for Settlement which restates the Joint Petition for Settlement filed in October 2010, adds the PPUCs Office of Trial Staff as a signatory party, and confirms the support or non opposition of all parties to the settlement. One party retained the ability to challenge the recovery of amounts spent on WPs original smart meter implementation plan. A Joint Stipulation with the OSBA was also filed on March 9, 2011. The PPUC approved the Amended Joint Petition for Full Settlement by order entered June 30, 2011. By Tentative Order entered in September 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional 30 day comment period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met Ed and Penelec were going to implement direct access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met Ed and Penelec to apply over collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non NUG stranded costs when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various parties filed comments objecting to the accounting method utilized by Met Ed and Penelec. On January 30, 2012, the Commission entered a final order approving Met Eds and Penelecs accounting methodology whereby NUG over collection revenue may be used to reduce non NUG stranded costs, even if a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In the PPUC Order approving the FirstEnergy and Allegheny merger, the PPUC announced that a separate statewide investigation into Pennsylvanias retail electricity market will be conducted with the goal of making recommendations for improvements to ensure that a properly functioning and workable competitive retail electricity market exists in the state. On April 29, 2011, the PPUC entered an Order initiating the investigation and requesting comments from interested parties on eleven directed questions concerning retail markets in Pennsylvania. Met Ed, Penelec, Penn Power and WP submitted joint comments on June 3, 2011. FES also submitted comments on June 3, 2011. On June 8, 2011, the PPUC conducted an en banc hearing on these issues at which both the Pennsylvania Companies and FES participated and offered testimony. A technical conference was held on August 10, 2011, and a second en banc was held on November 10, 2011, to discuss intermediate steps that can be taken to promote the development of a competitive market. Teleconferences are scheduled through March 2012, with another en banc hearing to be held on March 21, 2012, to explore the future of default service in Pennsylvania following the expiration of the upcoming default service plans on May 31, 2015. Following the issuance of a Tentative Order and comments filed by numerous parties, the Commission entered a final order on December 16, 2011, providing recommendations for components to be included in upcoming default service plans. An intermediate work plan was also presented on December 16, 2011, by Tentative Order, on which initial comments were submitted by Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP on January 17, 2012. FES also submitted comments. Reply comments were submitted on February 1, 2012. It is expected that a final order implementing the intermediate work plan and a long range plan will be presented by the PPUC, both in March 2012. The PPUC issued a Proposed Rulemaking Order on August 25, 2011, which proposed a number of substantial modifications to the current Code of Conduct regulations that were promulgated to provide competitive safeguards to the competitive retail electric market in Pennsylvania. The proposed changes include, but are not limited to: an EGS may not have the same or substantially similar name as the EDC or its corporate parent; EDCs and EGSs would not be permitted to share office space and would need to occupy different buildings; EDCs and affiliated EGSs could not share employees or services, except certain corporate support, emergency, or tariff services (the definition of "corporate support services" excludes items such as information systems, electronic data interchange, strategic management and planning, regulatory services, legal services, or commodities that have been included in regulated rates at less than market value); and an EGS must enter into a trademark agreement with the EDC before using its trademark or service mark. The Proposed Rulemaking Order, which was published on February 11, 2012, calls for comments to be submitted by March 27, 2012. If implemented these rules could require a significant change in the way FES, Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP do business in Pennsylvania, and could possibly have an adverse impact on their results of operations and financial condition. In November 2011, Met Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP filed a Joint Petition for Approval of their Default Service Plan for the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The Pennsylvania Companies direct case was submitted in its entirety on December 20, 2011. Evidentiary hearings are scheduled for April 11 13, 2012, and a final order must be entered by the PPUC by August 17, 2012.WEST VIRGINIAIn 2009, the West Virginia Legislature enacted the AREPA, which generally requires that a specified minimum percentage of electricity sold to retail customers in West Virginia by electric utilities each year be derived from alternative and renewable energy resources according to a predetermined schedule of increasing percentage targets, including 10% by 2015, 15% by 2020, and 25% by 2025. 88In November 2010, the WVPSC issued RPS Rules, which became effective on January 4, 2011. Under the RPS Rules, on or before January 1, 2011, each electric utility subject to the provisions of this rule was required to prepare an alternative and renewable energy portfolio standard compliance plan and file an application with the WVPSC seeking approval of such plan. MP and PE filed their combined compliance plan in December 2010. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on June 13, 2011. An order was issued by the WVPSC in September 2011, which conditionally approved MPs and PEs compliance plan, contingent on the outcome of the resource credits case discussed below.Additionally, in January 2011, MP and PE filed an application with the WVPSC seeking to certify three facilities as Qualified Energy Resource Facilities. The application was approved and the three facilities are capable of generating renewable credits which will assist the companies in meeting their combined requirements under the AREPA. An annual update filing is due on March 31, 2012. Further, in February 2011, MP and PE filed a petition with the WVPSC seeking an Order declaring that MP is entitled to all alternative and renewable energy resource credits associated with the electric energy, or energy and capacity, that MP is required to purchase pursuant to electric energy purchase agreements between MP and three non utility electric generating facilities in West Virginia. The City of New Martinsville and Morgantown Energy Associates, each the owner of one of the contracted resources, has participated in the case in opposition to the Petition. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on August 25 and 26, 2011. On November 22, 2011, the WVPSC issued an order granting ownership of all RECs produced by the facilities to MP. On December 22, 2011, the WVPSC order was appealed, and the order was stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. MPs brief was filed on February 13, 2012. Should MP be unsuccessful in the appeal, it will have to procure the requisite RECs to comply with AREPA from other sources. MP expects to recover such costs from customers.In September 2011, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC to recover costs associated with fuel and purchased power (the ENEC) in the amount of $32 million which represents an approximate 3% overall increase in such costs over the past two years, primarily attributable to rising coal prices. The requested increase was partially offset by $2.5 million of synergy savings directly resulting from the merger of FirstEnergy and AE, which closed in February 2011. Under a cost recovery clause established by the WVPSC in 2007, MP and PE customer bills are adjusted periodically to reflect upward or downward changes in the cost of fuel and purchased power. The utilities most recent request to recover costs for fuel and purchased power was in September 2009. MP and PE entered into a Settlement Agreement related to this matter. The WVPSC issued an order on December 30, 2011, approving the settlement agreement. The approved settlement resulted in an increase of $19.6 million, instead of the requested $32 million, with additional costs to be recovered over time with a carrying charge.FERC MATTERSPJM Transmission RateIn April 2007, FERC issued Opinion 494 finding that the PJM transmission owners existing license plate or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at 500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a postage stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a load flow methodology, which is generally referred to as a beneficiary pays approach to allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities.FERCs Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which issued a decision in August 2009. The court affirmed FERCs ratemaking treatment for existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate costs for new 500 kV and higher voltage facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded the rate design issue to FERC.In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for a paper hearing and requested parties to submit written comments pursuant to the schedule described in the order. FERC identified nine separate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJMs filing demonstrated that allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results in certain load serving entities in PJM bearing the majority of the costs. Numerous parties filed responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Other utilities and state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a load ratio share basis. This matter is awaiting action by FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. RTO RealignmentOn June 1, 2011, ATSI and the ATSI zone entered into PJM. The move was performed as planned with no known operational or reliability issues for ATSI or for the wholesale transmission customers in the ATSI zone.On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJMs tariffs. On April 1, 2011, the MISO TOs (including ATSI) filed proposed tariff language that describes the mechanics of collecting and 89administering MTEP costs from ATSI zone ratepayers. From March 20, 2011 through April 1, 2011, FirstEnergy, PJM and the MISO submitted numerous filings for the purpose of effecting movement of the ATSI zone to PJM on June 1, 2011. These filings include amendments to the MISOs tariffs (to remove the ATSI zone), submission of load and generation interconnection agreements to reflect the move into PJM, and submission of changes to PJMs tariffs to support the move into PJM. On May 31, 2011, FERC issued orders that address the proposed ATSI transmission rate, and certain parts of the MISO tariffs that reflect the mechanics of transmission cost allocation and collection. In its May 31, 2011 orders, FERC approved ATSIs proposal to move the ATSI formula rate into the PJM tariff without significant change. Speaking to ATSIs proposed treatment of the MISOs exit fees and charges for transmission costs that were allocated to the ATSI zone, FERC required ATSI to present a cost benefit study that demonstrates that the benefits of the move for transmission customers exceed the costs of any such move, which FERC had not previously required. Accordingly, FERC ruled that these costs must be removed from ATSIs proposed transmission rates until such time as ATSI files and FERC approves the cost benefit study. On June 30, 2011, ATSI submitted the compliance filing that removed the MISO exit fees and transmission cost allocation charges from ATSIs proposed transmission rates. Also on June 30, 2011, ATSI requested rehearing of FERCs decision to require a cost benefit analysis as part of FERCs evaluation of ATSIs proposed transmission rates. Finally, and also on June 30, 2011, the MISO and the MISO TOs filed a competing compliance filing one that would require ATSI to pay certain charges related to construction and operation of transmission projects within the MISO even though FERC ruled that ATSI cannot pass these costs on to ATSIs customers. ATSI on the one hand, and the MISO and MISO TOs on the other, have submitted subsequent filings each of which is intended to refute the others claims. ATSIs compliance filing and request for rehearing, as well as the pleadings that reflect the dispute between ATSI and the MISO/MISO TOs, are currently pending before FERC.From late April 2011 through June 2011, FERC issued other orders that address ATSIs move into PJM. Also, ATSI and the MISO were able to negotiate an agreement of ATSIs responsibility for certain charges associated with long term firm transmission rights that, according to the MISO, were payable by the ATSI zone upon its departure from the MISO. ATSI did not and does not agree that these costs should be charged to ATSI but, in order to settle the case and all claims associated with the case, ATSI agreed to a one time payment of $1.8 million to the MISO. This settlement agreement has been submitted for FERCs review and approval. The final outcome of those proceedings that address the remaining open issues related to ATSIs move into PJM and their impact, if any, on FirstEnergy cannot be predicted at this time. MISO Multi Value Project Rule ProposalIn July 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission projects described as MVPs are a class of transmission projects that are approved via the MTEP. The filing parties proposed to allocate the costs of MVPs by means of a usage based charge that will be applied to all loads within the MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be wheeled through the MISO as well as to energy transactions that source in the MISO but sink outside of MISO. The filing parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the east. The filing parties requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISOs Board approved the first MVP project the Michigan Thumb Project. Under MISOs proposal, the costs of MVP projects approved by MISOs Board prior to the June 1, 2011 effective date of FirstEnergys integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated that approximately $15 million in annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion. In September 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISOs proposal to allocate costs of MVPs projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the beneficiary pays approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress that had been made to date in the ATSI integration into PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI. Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISOs MVP proposal.In December 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change. Despite being presented with the issue by FirstEnergy and the MISO, the FERC did not address clearly the question of whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISOs tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attached prior to ATSIs exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERCs order and would be addressed in future proceedings. On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy requested rehearing of FERCs order. In its rehearing request, FirstEnergy argued that because the MVP rate is usage based, costs could not be applied to ATSI, which is a stand alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the ATSI zone or to ATSI. On October 21, 2011, FERC issued its order on rehearing, but that order did not address FirstEnergys argument directly. FERC ruled instead that if ATSI was subject to MVP charges then ATSI owed these charges upon exit of the MISO. On October 31, 2011, FESC filed a Petition of Review for the FERCs December 2010 order and October 21, 2011 order on rehearing of that order with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Other parties also filed appeals of those orders and, in November, 2011, the cases were consolidated for briefing and disposition in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On January 27, 2012, the court ordered the FERC to file a proposed briefing format and schedule on or before March 20, 2012. 90On August 3, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a complaint with FERC based on the FERCs December 2010 order. In the complaint, FirstEnergy argued that ATSI perfected the legal and financial requirements necessary to exit MISO before any MVP responsibilities could attach and asked FERC to rule that MISO cannot charge ATSI for MVP costs. On September 2, 2011, MISO, its TOs and other parties, filed responsive pleadings. On September 19, 2011, ATSI filed an answer. On December 29, 2011, the MISO and the MISO TOs filed a new Schedule 39 to the MISOs tariff. Schedule 39 purports to establish a process whereby the MISO would bill TOs for MVP costs that, according to the MISO, attached to the utility prior to such TOs withdrawal from the MISO. On January 19, 2012, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MISOs new Schedule 39 tariff. On February 27, 2012, FERC issued an order (February 2012 Order) dismissing ATSIs August 3, 2011 complaint. In the February 2012 Order, FERC accepted the MISOs Schedule 39 tariff, subject to hearings and potential refund of MVP charges to ATSI. The basis for any subsequent hearing is whether the Schedule 39 tariff was in effect at the time that ATSI exited the MISO. FirstEnergy is evaluating the February 2012 Order and will determine the next steps.FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.FirstEnergy Companies PJM FTR Contract Underfunding ComplaintOn December 28, 2011, FES and AE Supply filed a complaint with FERC against PJM challenging the ongoing underfunding of FTR contracts, which exist to hedge against transmission congestion in the day ahead markets. The underfunding is a result of PJMs practice of using the funds that are intended to pay the holders of FTR contracts to pay instead for congestion costs that occur in the real time markets. Underfunding of the FTR contracts resulted in losses of approximately $35 million to FES and AE Supply in the 2010 2011 Delivery Year. To date, losses for the 2011 2012 Delivery Year are estimated to be approximately $6 million. On January 13, 2012, PJM filed comments that describe changes to the PJM tariff that, if adopted, should remedy the underfunding issue. Many parties also filed comments supporting FES and AE Supplys position. Other parties, generally representatives of end use customers who will have to pay the charges, filed in opposition to the complaint. The matter is currently pending before FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. California Claims MattersIn October 2006, several California governmental and utility parties presented AE Supply with a settlement proposal to resolve alleged overcharges for power sales by AE Supply to the California Energy Resource Scheduling division of the CDWR during 2001. The settlement proposal claims that CDWR is owed approximately $190 million for these alleged overcharges. This proposal was made in the context of mediation efforts by FERC and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in pending proceedings to resolve all outstanding refund and other claims, including claims of alleged price manipulation in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The Ninth Circuit has since remanded one of those proceedings to FERC, which arises out of claims previously filed with FERC by the California Attorney General on behalf of certain California parties against various sellers in the California wholesale power market, including AE Supply (the Lockyer case). AE Supply and several other sellers filed motions to dismiss the Lockyer case. In March 2010, the judge assigned to the case entered an opinion that granted the motions to dismiss filed by AE Supply and other sellers and dismissed the claims of the California Parties. On May 4, 2011, FERC affirmed the judges ruling. On June 3, 2011, the California parties requested rehearing of the May 4, 2011 order. The request for rehearing remains pending. In June 2009, the California Attorney General, on behalf of certain California parties, filed a second complaint with FERC against various sellers, including AE Supply (the Brown case), again seeking refunds for trades in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The above noted trades with CDWR are the basis for including AE Supply in this new complaint. AE Supply filed a motion to dismiss the Brown complaint that was granted by FERC on May 24, 2011. On June 23, 2011, the California Attorney General requested rehearing of the May 24, 2011 order. That request for rehearing also remains pending. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of either of the above matters or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. PATH Transmission ProjectThe PATH Project is comprised of a 765 kV transmission line that was proposed to extend from West Virginia through Virginia and into Maryland, modifications to an existing substation in Putnam County, West Virginia, and the construction of new substations in Hardy County, West Virginia and Frederick County, Maryland. PJM initially authorized construction of the PATH Project in June 2007. In December 2010, PJM advised that its 2011 Load Forecast Report included load projections that are different from previous forecasts and that may have an impact on the proposed in service date for the PATH Project. As part of its 2011 RTEP, and in response to a January 19, 2011, directive by a Virginia Hearing Examiner, PJM conducted a series of analyses using the most current economic forecasts and demand response commitments, as well as potential new generation resources. Preliminary analysis revealed the expected reliability violations that necessitated the PATH Project had moved several years into the future. Based on those results, PJM announced on February 28, 2011, that its Board of Managers had decided to hold the PATH Project in abeyance in its 2011 RTEP and directed FirstEnergy and AEP, as the sponsoring transmission owners, to suspend current development efforts on the project, subject to those activities necessary to maintain the project in its current state, while PJM conducts more rigorous analysis of the need for the project as part of its continuing RTEP 91process. PJM stated that its action did not constitute a directive to FirstEnergy and AEP to cancel or abandon the PATH Project. PJM further stated that it will complete a more rigorous analysis of the PATH Project and other transmission requirements and its Board will review this comprehensive analysis as part of its consideration of the 2011 RTEP. On February 28, 2011, affiliates of FirstEnergy and AEP filed motions or notices to withdraw applications for authorization to construct the project that were pending before state commissions in West Virginia, Virginia and Maryland. Withdrawal was deemed effective upon filing the notice with the MDPSC. The WVPSC and VSCC have granted the motions to withdraw.PATH submitted a filing to FERC to implement a formula rate tariff effective March 1, 2008. In a November 19, 2010 order addressing various matters relating to the formula rate, FERC set the projects base ROE for hearing and reaffirmed its prior authorization of a return on CWIP, recovery of start up costs and recovery of abandonment costs. In the order, FERC also granted a 1.5% ROE incentive adder and a 0.5% ROE adder for RTO participation. These adders will be applied to the base ROE determined as a result of the hearing. The PATH Companies, Joint Intervenors, Joint Consumer Advocates and FERC staff have agreed to a four year moratorium. A settlement was reached, which reflects a base ROE of 10.4% (plus authorized adders) effective January 1, 2011. Accordingly, the revised ROE was reflected in a revised Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement for 2011 with true up occurring in 2013. The FirstEnergy portion of the refund for March 1, 2008, through December 31, 2010, is approximately $2 million (inclusive of interest). The refund amount was computed using a base ROE of 10.8% plus authorized adders. On October 7, 2011, PATH and six intervenors submitted to FERC an unopposed settlement agreement. Contemporaneous with this submission, PATH and the six intervenors filed with the Chief ALJ of FERC a joint motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund on an interim basis pending issuance of a FERC order acting on the settlement agreement. On October 12, 2011, the motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund was granted by the Chief ALJ. On February 16, 2012, FERC approved the settlement agreement and dismissed as moot, in light of its approval of the settlement, PATHs pending request for rehearing of the November 19, 2010 order.Yards CreekThe Yards Creek Pumped Storage Project is a 400 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County, New Jersey. JCP&L owns an undivided 50% interest in the project, and operates the project. PSEG Fossil, LLC, a subsidiary of Public Service Enterprise Group, owns the remaining interest in the plant. The project was constructed in the early 1960s, and became operational in 1965. Authorization to operate the project is by a license issued by the FERC. The existing license expires on February 28, 2013. In February 2011, JCP&L and PSEG filed a joint application with FERC to renew the license for an additional forty years. The companies are pursuing relicensure through FERCs ILP. Under the ILP, FERC will assess the license applications, issue draft and final Environmental Assessments/Environmental Impact Studies (as required by NEPA), and provide opportunities for intervention and protests by affected third parties. FERC may hold hearings during the two year ILP licensure period. FirstEnergy expects FERC to issue the new license within the remaining portion of the two year ILP period. To the extent, however, that the license proceedings extend beyond the February 28, 2013 expiration date for the current license, the current license will be extended yearly as necessary to permit FERC to issue the new license. SenecaThe Seneca Pumped Storage Project is a 451 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County, Pennsylvania owned and operated by FGCO. FGCO holds the current FERC license that authorizes ownership and operation of the project. The current FERC license will expire on November 30, 2015. FERCs regulations call for a five year relicensing process. On November 24, 2010, and acting pursuant to applicable FERC regulations and rules, FGCO initiated the relicensing process by filing its notice of intent to relicense and PAD in the license docket. On November 30, 2010, the Seneca Nation filed its notice of intent to relicense and PADs necessary for them to submit a competing application. Section 15 of the FPA contemplates that third parties may file a "competing application" to assume ownership and operation of a hydroelectric facility upon (i) relicensure and (ii) payment of net book value of the plant to the original owner/operator. Nonetheless, FGCO believes it is entitled to a statutory incumbent preference under Section 15. The Seneca Nation and certain other intervenors have asked FERC to redefine the project boundary of the hydroelectric plant to include the dam and reservoir facilities operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. On May 16, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a Petition for Declaratory Order with FERC seeking an order to exclude the dam and reservoir facilities from the project. The Seneca Nation, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and the U.S. Department of Interior each submitted responses to FirstEnergys petition, including motions to dismiss FirstEnergys petition. The project boundary issue is pending before FERC. On September 12, 2011, FirstEnergy and the Seneca Nation each filed Revised Study Plan documents. These documents describe the parties respective proposals for the scope of the environmental studies that should be performed as part of the relicensing process. On October 11, 2011, FERC Staff issued a letter order that addressed the Revised Study Plans. In the order, FERC Staff approved FirstEnergys Revised Study Plan, subject to a finding that the Project is located on aboriginal lands of the Seneca Nation. Based on this finding, FERC Staff directed FirstEnergy to consult with the Seneca Nation and other parties about the data set, methodology, and modeling of the hydrological impacts of project operations. FirstEnergy is performing the work necessary to develop a study proposal from which to conduct such consultations. The study process will extend through approximately November of 2013. 92FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERSVarious federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations. CAA ComplianceFirstEnergy is required to meet federally approved SO2 and NOx emissions regulations under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower or non emitting plants and or using emission allowances. Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and or civil or criminal penalties.In July 2008, three complaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on air emissions from the coal fired Bruce Mansfield Plant. Two of these complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty one individuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints. The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at the coal fired Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (formerly RRI Energy, Inc. and the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met Ed in 1999) and Met Ed. Specifically, these suits allege that modifications at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program, and seek injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009, the Court granted Met Eds motion to dismiss New Jerseys and Connecticuts claims for injunctive relief against Met Ed, but denied Met Eds motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The parties dispute the scope of Met Eds indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy, and Met Ed is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn Energy, Inc. alleging NSR violations at the coal fired Portland Generation Station based on modifications dating back to 1986. The NOV also alleged NSR violations at the Keystone and Shawville coal fired plants based on modifications dating back to 1984. Met Ed, JCP&L and Penelec are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In each of May and September 2010, New Jersey submitted interstate pollution transport petitions seeking to reduce Portland Generating Station air emissions under section 126 of the CAA. Based on the September 2010 petition, the EPA has finalized emissions limits and compliance schedules to reduce SO2 air emissions by approximately 81% at the Portland Station by January 6, 2015. New Jerseys May 2010 petition is still under consideration by the EPA. In June 2008, the EPA issued a Notice and Finding of Violation to Mission alleging that modifications at the coal fired Homer City Plant occurred from 1988 to the present without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD program. In May 2010, the EPA issued a second NOV to Mission, Penelec, NYSEG and others that have had an ownership interest in Homer City containing in all material respects allegations identical to those included in the June 2008 NOV. In January 2011, the DOJ filed a complaint against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking injunctive relief against Penelec based on alleged modifications at Homer City between 1991 to 1994 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAAs PSD and Title V permitting programs. The complaint was also filed against the former co owner, NYSEG, and various current owners of Homer City, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison International. In addition, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York intervened and have filed separate complaints regarding Homer City seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties. In January 2011, another complaint was filed against Penelec and the other entities described above in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Homer Citys air emissions as well as certification as a class action and to enjoin Homer City from operating except in a safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner. In October 2011, the Court dismissed all of the claims with prejudice of the U.S. and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York and all of the claims of the private parties, without prejudice to re file state law claims in state court, against all of the defendants, including Penelec.In December 2011, the U.S., the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York all filed notices appealing to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Penelec believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the loss or possible range of loss. Mission is seeking indemnification from NYSEG and Penelec, the co owners of Homer City prior to its sale in 1999. On February 13, 2012, the Sierra Club notified the current owner and operator of Homer City, Homer City OL1 OL8 LLC and EME Homer City Generation L.P., that it intends to file a CAA citizen suit regarding its Title V permit and SO2 emissions from the Homer City Plant.In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, including the 93PSD, NNSR and Title V regulations, at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal fired plants. The EPAs NOV alleges equipment replacements during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre construction permitting requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO also received a request for certain operating and maintenance information and planning information for these same generating plants and notification that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake Plant may constitute a major modification under the NSR provisions of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake Plant. In June 2011, EPA issued another Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, specifically opacity limitations and requirements to continuously operate opacity monitoring systems at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal fired plants. Also, in June 2011, FirstEnergy received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA for certain operating, maintenance and planning information, among other information regarding these plants. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPAs information requests but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In August 2000, AE received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA from the EPA requesting that it provide information and documentation relevant to the operation and maintenance of the following ten coal fired plants, which collectively include 22 electric generation units: Albright, Armstrong, Fort Martin, Harrison, Hatfields Ferry, Mitchell, Pleasants, Rivesville, R. Paul Smith and Willow Island to determine compliance with the NSR provisions under the CAA, which can require the installation of additional air emission control equipment when a major modification of an existing facility results in an increase in emissions. AE has provided responsive information to this and a subsequent request but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In May 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a Notice of Intent to Sue Pursuant to CAA 7604 from the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and from the PA DEP, alleging that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the PSD provisions of the CAA at the following West Virginia coal fired generation units: Albright Unit 3; Fort Martin Units 1 and 2; Harrison Units 1, 2 and 3; Pleasants Units 1 and 2 and Willow Island Unit 2. The Notice also alleged PSD violations at the Armstrong, Hatfields Ferry and Mitchell coal fired plants in Pennsylvania and identifies PA DEP as the lead agency regarding those facilities. In September 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a separate Notice of Intent to Sue from the Maryland Attorney General that essentially mirrored the previous Notice. In June 2005, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland filed suit against AE, AE Supply, MP, PE and WP in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania alleging, among other things, that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the CAA and the Pennsylvania Air Pollution Control Act at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry, Armstrong and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania. On January 17, 2006, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General filed an amended complaint. A non jury trial on liability only was held in September 2010. Plaintiffs filed their proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in December 2010, Allegheny made its related filings in February 2011 and plaintiffs filed their responses in April 2011. The parties are awaiting a decision from the District Court, but there is no deadline for that decision and we are unable to predict the outcome or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In September 2007, Allegheny received a NOV from the EPA alleging NSR and PSD violations under the CAA, as well as Pennsylvania and West Virginia state laws at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry and Armstrong plants in Pennsylvania and the coal fired Fort Martin and Willow Island plants in West Virginia. FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CAA matters described above but cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.State Air Quality ComplianceIn early 2006, Maryland passed the Healthy Air Act, which imposes state wide emission caps on SO2 and NOx, requires mercury emission reductions and mandates that Maryland join the RGGI and participate in that coalitions regional efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. On April 20, 2007, Maryland became the tenth state to join the RGGI. The Healthy Air Act provides a conditional exemption for the R. Paul Smith coal fired plant for NOx, SO2 and mercury, based on a 2006 PJM declaration that the plant is vital to reliability in the Baltimore/Washington DC metropolitan area. Pursuant to the legislation, the MDE passed alternate NOx and SO2 limits for R. Paul Smith, which became effective in April 2009. However, R. Paul Smith is still required to meet the Healthy Air Act mercury reductions of 80% which began in 2010. The statutory exemption does not extend to R. Paul Smiths CO2 emissions. Maryland issued final regulations to implement RGGI requirements in February 2008. Fourteen RGGI auctions have been held through the end of calendar year 2011. RGGI allowances are also readily available in the allowance markets, affording another mechanism by which to secure necessary allowances. On March 14, 2011, MDE requested PJM perform an analysis to determine if termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region under current system conditions. On June 30, 2011, PJM notified MDE that termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region absent transmission system upgrades. On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that R. Paul Smith is among nine coal fired plants it intends to retire by September 1, 2012, subject to review of reliability impacts by PJM. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss. In January 2010, the WVDEP issued a NOV for opacity emissions at the Pleasants coal fired plant. In August 2011, FirstEnergy and WVDEP resolved the NOV through a Consent Order requiring installation of a reagent injection system to reduce opacity by September 2012.94National Ambient Air Quality StandardsThe EPAs CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in its entirety and directed the EPA to redo its analysis from the ground up. In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Courts opinion. The Court ruled in a different case that a cap and trade program similar to CAIR, called the NOx SIP Call, cannot be used to satisfy certain CAA requirements (known as reasonably available control technology) for areas in non attainment under the 8 hour ozone NAAQS. In July 2011, the EPA finalized the CSAPR, to replace CAIR,requiring reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.4 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.2 million tons annually. CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances with some restrictions. On February 21, 2012, the EPA revised certain CASPR state budgets (for Florida, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin and new unit set asides in Arkansas and Texas), certain generating unit allocations (for some units in Alabama, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee) for NOx and SO2 emissions and delayed from 2012 to 2014 certain allowance penalties that could apply with respect to interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances. On December 30, 2011, CSAPR was stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit pending a decision on legal challenges raised in appeals filed by various stakeholders and scheduled to be argued before the Court on April 13, 2012. The Court ordered EPA to continue administration of CAIR until the Court resolves the CSAPR appeals. Depending on the outcome of these proceedings and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, FGCOs and AE Supplys future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergys operations may result.During 2011, FirstEnergy recorded pre tax impairment charges of approximately $6 million ($1 million for FES and $5 million for AE Supply) for NOx emission allowances that were expected to be obsolete after 2011 and approximately $21 million ($18 million for FES and $3 million for AE Supply) for excess SO2 emission allowances in inventory that it expects will not be consumed in the future.Hazardous Air Pollutant EmissionsOn December 21, 2011, the EPA finalized the MATS to establish emission standards for mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals for electric generating units. The MATS establishes emission limits for mercury, PM, and HCL for all existing and new coal fired electric generating units effective in April 2015 and allows averaging of emissions from multiple units located at a single plant. Under the CAA, state permitting authorities can grant an additional compliance year through April 2016, as needed, including instances when necessary to maintain reliability where electric generating units are being closed. In addition, an EPA enforcement policy document contemplates up to an additional year to achieve compliance, through April 2017, under certain circumstances for reliability critical units. On January 26, 2012 and February 8, 2012, FGCO, MP and AE Supply announced the retirement by September 1, 2012 (subject to a reliability review by PJM) of nine coal fired power plants (Albright, Armstrong, Ashtabula, Bay Shore except for generating unit 1, Eastlake, Lake Shore, R. Paul Smith, Rivesville and Willow Island) with a total capacity of 3,349 megawatts (generating, on average, approximately ten percent of the electricity produced by the companies over the past three years) due to MATS and other environmental regulations. In addition, MP will make a filing with the WVPSC to provide them with information regarding the retirement of its plants. Depending on how the MATS are ultimately implemented, FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with MATS may be substantial and other changes to FirstEnergys operations may result. On February 24, 2012, PJM notified FirstEnergy of its preliminary analysis of the reliability impacts that may result from closure of the older competitive coal fired generating units. PJMs preliminary analysis indicated that there would be significant reliability concerns that will need to be addressed. FirstEnergy intends to continue to actively engage in discussions with PJM regarding this notification, including the possible continued operation of certain plants. Climate ChangeThere are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, in June 2009. Certain states, primarily the northeastern states participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs. In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that required FirstEnergy to measure and report GHG emissions commencing in 2010. In December 2009, the EPA released its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act. The EPAs finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years 2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light duty trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles and clarified that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAAs NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year of CO2 equivalents effective January 2, 2011, for existing facilities under the CAAs PSD program.95At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non binding political agreement that recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees Celsius; includes a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establishes the Green Climate Fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate related activities in developing countries. To the extent that they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification.A December 2011 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Durban, Africa, established a negotiating process to develop a new post 2020 climate change protocol, called the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action. This negotiating process contemplates developed countries, as well as developing countries such as China, India, Brazil, and South Africa, to undertake legally binding commitments post 2020. In addition, certain countries agreed to extend the Kyoto Protocol for a second commitment period, commencing in 2013 and expiring in 2018 or 2020. In 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global warming and result in property damages. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to review the decision of the Second Circuit. On June 20, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the Second Circuit but failed to answer the question of the extent to which actions for damages based on GHG emissions may remain viable. The Court remanded to the Second Circuit the issue of whether the CAA preempted state common law nuisance actions. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many of its regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non CO2 emitting gas fired and nuclear generators.Clean Water ActVarious water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergys plants. In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergys operations.In 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the CWA for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facilitys cooling water system). In 2007, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated portions of the Section 316(b) performance standards and the EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. In April 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuits opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the CWA authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. On March 28, 2011, the EPA released a new proposed regulation under Section 316(b) of the CWA generally requiring fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. On July 19, 2011, the EPA extended the public comment period for the new proposed Section 316(b) regulation by 30 days but stated its schedule for issuing a final rule remains July 27, 2012. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plants water intake channel to divert fish away from the plants water intake system. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPAs further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures.In April 2011, the U.S. Attorneys Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is no longer considering prosecution under the CWA and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27, 2007. On August 5, 2011, EPA issued an information request pursuant to Sections 308 and 311 of the CWA for certain information pertaining to the oil spills and spill prevention measures at FirstEnergy facilities. FirstEnergy responded on October 10, 2011. On February 1, 2012, FirstEnergy executed a tolling agreement with the EPA extending the statute of limitations to July 31, 2012. FGCO does not anticipate any losses resulting from this matter to be material. In May 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club filed a CWA citizen suit alleging violations of arsenic limits in the NPDES water discharge permit for the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Station seeking unspecified civil penalties and injunctive relief. The MP filed an answer on July 11, 2011, and a motion to stay the proceedings 96on July 13, 2011. On January 3, 2012, the Court denied MPs motion to dismiss or stay the CWA citizen suit but without prejudice to re filing in the future. MP is currently seeking relief from the arsenic limits through WVDEP agency review. In June 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club served a60 Day Notice of Intent required prior to filing a citizen suit under the CWA for alleged failure to obtain a permit to construct the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Plant. FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CWA matters described above but, except as indicated above, cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.Monongahela River Water QualityIn late 2008, the PA DEP imposed water quality criteria for certain effluents, including TDS and sulfate concentrations in the Monongahela River, on new and modified sources, including the scrubber project at the coal fired Hatfields Ferry Plant. These criteria are reflected in the current PA DEP water discharge permit for that project. AE Supply appealed the PA DEPs permitting decision, which would require it to incur estimated costs in excess of $150 million in order to install technology to meet TDS and sulfate limits in the permit or negatively affect its ability to operate the scrubbers as designed. The permit has been independently appealed by Environmental Integrity Project and Citizens Coal Council, which seeks to impose more stringent technology based effluent limitations. Those same parties have intervened in the appeal filed by AE Supply, and both appeals have been consolidated for discovery purposes. An order has been entered that stays the permit limits that AE Supply has challenged while the appeal is pending. A hearing on the parties appeals was scheduled to begin in September 2011, however the Court stayed all prehearing deadlines on July 15, 2011 to allow the parties additional time to work out a settlement, and has rescheduled a hearing, if necessary, for July 2012. If these settlement discussions are successful, AE Supply anticipates that its obligations will not be material. AE Supply intends to vigorously pursue these issues, but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.In a parallel rulemaking, the PA DEP recommended, and in August 2010, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board issued, a final rule imposing end of pipe TDS effluent limitations. FirstEnergy could incur significant costs for additional control equipment to meet the requirements of this rule, although its provisions do not apply to electric generating units until the end of 2018, and then only if the EPA has not promulgated TDS effluent limitation guidelines applicable to such units.In December 2010, PA DEP submitted its CWA 303(d) list to the EPA with a recommended sulfate impairment designation for an approximately 68 mile stretch of the Monongahela River north of the West Virginia border. In May 2011, the EPA agreed with PA DEPs recommended sulfate impairment designation. PA DEPs goal is to submit a final water quality standards regulation, incorporating the sulfate impairment designation for EPA approval by May, 2013. PA DEP will then need to develop a TMDL limit for the river, a process that will take approximately five years. Based on the stringency of the TMDL, FirstEnergy may incur significant costs to reduce sulfate discharges into the Monongahela River from the coal fired Hatfields Ferry and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania and the coal fired Fort Martin Plant in West Virginia.In October 2009, the WVDEP issued the water discharge permit for the Fort Martin Plant. Similar to the Hatfields Ferry water discharge permit, the Fort Martin permit imposes effluent limitations for TDS and sulfate concentrations. The permit also imposes temperature limitations and other effluent limits for heavy metals that are not contained in the Hatfields Ferry water discharge permit. Concurrent with the issuance of the Fort Martin permit, WVDEP also issued an administrative order that sets deadlines for MP to meet certain of the effluent limits that are effective immediately under the terms of the permit. MP appealed the Fort Martin permit and the administrative order. The appeal included a request to stay certain of the conditions of the permit and order while the appeal is pending, which was granted pending a final decision on appeal and subject to WVDEP moving to dissolve the stay. The appeals have been consolidated. MP moved to dismiss certain of the permit conditions for the failure of the WVDEP to submit those conditions for public review and comment during the permitting process. An agreed upon order that suspends further action on this appeal, pending WVDEPs release for public review and comment on those conditions, was entered on August 11, 2010. The stay remains in effect during that process. The current terms of the Fort Martin permit would require MP to incur significant costs or negatively affect operations at Fort Martin. Preliminary information indicates an initial capital investment in excess of the capital investment that may be needed at Hatfields Ferry in order to install technology to meet the TDS and sulfate limits in the Fort Martin permit, which technology may also meet certain of the other effluent limits in the permit. Additional technology may be needed to meet certain other limits in the permit. MP intends to vigorously pursue these issues but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.Regulation of Waste DisposalFederal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPAs evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non hazardous waste.In December 2009, in an advance notice of public rulemaking, the EPA asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. In May 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional 97regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPAs hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FirstEnergys future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. Compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on FirstEnergys results of operations and financial condition.LBR CCB impoundment is expected to run out of disposal capacity for disposal of CCBs from the BMP between 2016 and 2018. BMP is pursuing several CCB disposal options.Certain of our utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the Utility Registrants proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $106 million (JCP&L $70 million, TE $1 million, CEI $1 million, FGCO $1 million and FE $33 million) have been accrued through December 31, 2011. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $63 million for environmental remediation of former manufactured gas plants and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non bypassable SBC. On July 11, 2011, FirstEnergy was found to be a potentially responsible party under CERCLA, indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean up costs at certain legacy MGP sites, estimated to total approximately $59 million. FirstEnergy recognized an additional expense of $29 million during the second quarter of 2011; $30 million had previously been reserved prior to 2011. FirstEnergy determined that it is reasonably possible that it or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the possible losses or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time. OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGSPower Outages and Related LitigationIn July 1999, the Mid Atlantic States experienced a severe heat wave, which resulted in power outages throughout the service territories of many electric utilities, including JCP&L. Two class action lawsuits (subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding) were filed in New Jersey Superior Court in July 1999 against JCP&L, GPU and other GPU companies, seeking compensatory and punitive damages due to the outages. After various motions, rulings and appeals, the Plaintiffs claims for consumer fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, strict product liability and punitive damages were dismissed, leaving only the negligence and breach of contract causes of actions. On July 29, 2010, the Appellate Division upheld the trial courts decision decertifying the class. In November 2010, the Supreme Court issued an order denying Plaintiffs motion for leave to appeal. The Courts order effectively ends the attempt to certify the class, and leaves only 9 plaintiffs to pursue their respective individual claims. The matter was referred back to the lower court, which set a trial date for February 13, 2012, for the remaining individual plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have accepted an immaterial amount in final settlement of all matters and the settlement documentation is being finalized for execution by all parties. Nuclear Plant MattersUnder NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had approximately $2 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI 2. As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergys NDT fluctuate based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergys obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and their effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the NDT. On March 28, 2011, FENOC submitted its biennial report on nuclear decommissioning funding to the NRC. This submittal identified a total shortfall in nuclear decommissioning funding for Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry of approximately $92.5 million. By letter dated December 29, 2011, FENOC informed the NRC staff that it had increased the parental guarantee to $95 million. In January 2004, subsidiaries of FirstEnergy filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking damages in connection with costs incurred at the Beaver Valley, Davis Besse and Perry nuclear facilities as a result of the DOEs failure to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998. DOE was required to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (42 USC 10101 et seq) and the contracts entered into by the DOE and the owners and operators of these facilities pursuant to the Act. In January 2012, the applicable FirstEnergy affiliates reached a $48 million settlement of these claims.In August 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis Besse operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. By an order dated April 26, 2011, a NRC ASLB granted a hearing on the Davis Besse license renewal application to a group of petitioners. By this order, the ASLB also admitted two contentions challenging whether FENOCs Environmental Report adequately evaluated (1) a combination of renewable energy sources as alternatives to the renewal of Davis Besses operating license, and (2) severe accident mitigation alternatives at Davis Besse. On May 6, 2011, FENOC filed an appeal with the NRC from the order granting a hearing on the Davis Besse license renewal application. On January 10, 2012, intervenors petitioned the ASLB for a new contention on the cracking of the Davis Besse shield building discussed below. 98On October 1, 2011, Davis Besse was safely shut down for a scheduled outage to install a new reactor vessel head and complete other maintenance activities. The new reactor head, which replaced a head installed in 2002, enhances safety and reliability, and features control rod nozzles made of material less susceptible to cracking. On October 10, 2011, following opening of the building for installation of the new reactor head, a sub surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the shield building. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the shield building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub surface hairline cracks in most of the buildings architectural elements. FENOCs investigation also identified other indications. Included among them were sub surface hairline cracks in the upper portion of the shield building (above elevation 780) and in the vicinity of the main steam line penetrations. A team of industry recognized structural concrete experts and Davis Besse engineers has determined these conditions do not affect the facilitys structural integrity or safety.On December 2, 2011, the NRC issued a CAL which concluded that FENOC provided "reasonable assurance that the shield building remains capable of performing its safety functions." The CAL imposed a number of commitments from FENOC including, submitting a root cause evaluation and corrective actions to the NRC by February 28, 2012, and further evaluations of the shield building. On February 27, 2012, FENOC sent the root cause evaluation to the NRC. Finally, the CAL also stated that the NRC was still evaluating whether the current condition of the shield building conforms to the plants licensing basis. On December 6, 2011, the Davis Besse plant returned to service. By letter dated August 25, 2011, the NRC made a final significance determination (white) associated with a violation that occurred during the retraction of a source range monitor from the Perry reactor vessel. The NRC also placed Perry in the degraded cornerstone column (Column 3) of the NRCs Action Matrix governing the oversight of commercial nuclear reactors. As a result, the NRC staff will conduct several supplemental inspections, culminating in an inspection using Inspection Procedure 95002 to determine if the root cause and contributing causes of risk significant performance issues are understood, the extent of condition has been identified, whether safety culture contributed to the performance issues, and if FENOCs corrective actions are sufficient to address the causes and prevent recurrence.In light of the impacts of the earthquake and tsunami on the reactors in Fukushima, Japan, the NRC conducted inspections of emergency equipment at U.S. reactors. The NRC also established a Near Term Task Force to review its processes and regulations in light of the incident, and, on July 12, 2011, the Task Force issued its report of recommendations for regulatory changes. On October 18, 2011, the NRC approved the Staff recommendations, and directed the Staff to implement its near term recommendations without delay. Ultimately, the adoption of the Staff recommendations on near term actions is likely to result in additional costs to implement plant modifications and upgrades required by the regulatory process over the next several years, which costs are likely to be material.On February 16, 2012, the NRC issued a request for information to the licensed operators of 11 nuclear power plants, including Beaver Valley Power Station Units 1 and 2, with respect to the modeling of fuel performance as it relates to "thermal conductivity degradation," which is the potential in older fuel for reduced capacity to transfer heat that could potentially change its performance during various accident scenarios, including loss of coolant accidents. The request for information indicated that this phenomenon has not been accounted for adequately in performance models for the fuel developed by the fuel manufacturer. The NRC is requesting that FENOC provide an analysis to demonstrate that the NRC regulations are being met. Absent that demonstration, the request indicates that the NRC may consider imposing restrictions on reactor operating limits until the issue is satisfactorily resolved. ICG LitigationOn December 28, 2006, AE Supply and MP filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania against ICG, Anker WV, and Anker Coal. Anker WV entered into a long term Coal Sales Agreement with AE Supply and MP for the supply of coal to the Harrison generating facility. Prior to the time of trial, ICG was dismissed as a defendant by the Court, which issue can be the subject of a future appeal. As a result of defendants past and continued failure to supply the contracted coal, AE Supply and MP have incurred and will continue to incur significant additional costs for purchasing replacement coal. A non jury trial was held from January 10, 2011 through February 1, 2011. At trial, AE Supply and MP presented evidence that they have incurred in excess of $80 million in damages for replacement coal purchased through the end of 2010 and will incur additional damages in excess of $150 million for future shortfalls. Defendants primarily claim that their performance is excused under a force majeure clause in the coal sales agreement and presented evidence at trial that they will continue to not provide the contracted yearly tonnage amounts. On May 2, 2011, the court entered a verdict in favor of AE Supply and MP for $104 million ($90 million in future damages and $14 million for replacement coal / interest). Post trial filings occurred in May 2011, with Oral Argument on June 28, 2011. On August 25, 2011, the Allegheny County Court denied all Motions for Post Trial relief and the May 2, 2011 verdict became final. On August 26, 2011, ICG posted bond and filed a Notice of Appeal. Briefing on the Appeal is concluded with oral argument expected in May or June of 2012. AE Supply and MP intend to vigorously pursue this matter through appeal.Other Legal MattersIn February 2010, a class action lawsuit was filed in Geauga County Court of Common Pleas against FirstEnergy, CEI and OE seeking declaratory judgment and injunctive relief, as well as compensatory, incidental and consequential damages, on behalf of a class of customers related to the reduction of a discount that had previously been in place for residential customers with electric heating, electric water heating, or load management systems. The reduction in the discount was approved by the PUCO. In March 2010, the named defendant companies filed a motion to dismiss the case due to the lack of jurisdiction of the court of common 99pleas. The court granted the motion to dismiss on September 7, 2010. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals of Ohio. On October 21, 2011, the Court of Appeals rendered its decision affirming the dismissal of the Complaint by the Court of Common Pleas on all counts except for one relating to an allegation of fraud. The Companies timely filed a notice of appeal on December 5, 2011 with the Supreme Court of Ohio challenging this one aspect of the Court of Appeals opinion. The Supreme Court of Ohio has not yet acted on the appeal.There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FirstEnergys normal business operations pending against FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described under Note 15, Regulatory Matters.FirstEnergy accrues legal liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. In cases where FirstEnergy determines that it is not probable, but reasonably possible that it has a material obligation, it discloses such obligations and the possible loss or range of loss and if such estimate can be made. If it were ultimately determined that FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on any of the matters referenced above, it could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergys or its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESFirstEnergy prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Application of these principles often requires a high degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions that affect financial results. FirstEnergys accounting policies require significant judgment regarding estimates and assumptions underling the amounts included in the financial statements. Additional information regarding the application of accounting policies are included in the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue RecognitionFirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class.Regulatory AccountingFirstEnergys regulated distribution and regulated independent transmission segments are subject to regulations that sets the prices (rates) the Utilities, ATSI, TrAIL and PATH are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine are permitted to recover. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities based on anticipated future cash inflows and outflows. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future.Pensions and OPEB AccountingFirstEnergy provides noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees and non qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels.FirstEnergy provides a portion of non contributory pre retirement basic life insurance for employees who are eligible to retire. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co payments, are also available upon retirement to certain employees, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy also has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability related benefits.As described in Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, FirstEnergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans effective in 2011. Previously, FirstEnergy recognized the net actuarial gains and losses as a component of AOCI and amortized the gains and losses into income over the remaining service life of affected employees within the related plans, to the extent such gains and losses were outside a corridor of the greater of 10% of the market related value of plan assets or 10% of the plans projected benefit obligation. FirstEnergy has elected to immediately recognize the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. The remaining components of pension and OPEB expense, primarily service, interest, assumed return on assets and prior service costs, will be recorded on a quarterly basis. 100FirstEnergys funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. During 2011, FirstEnergy made pre tax contributions to its qualified pension plans of $372 million. FirstEnergy made an additional $600 million pre tax contribution to its qualified pension plan on January 5, 2012. The underfunded status of FirstEnergys qualified and non qualified pension and OPEB plans as of December 31, 2011 was $2.6 billion.As a result of the merger with AE in 2011, FirstEnergy assumed certain pension and OPEB plans. FirstEnergy measured the funded status of the Allegheny pension plans and OPEB plans as of the merger closing date using discount rates of 5.50% and 5.25%, respectively. The fair values of plan assets for Alleghenys pension plans and OPEB plans at the date of the merger were $954 million and $75 million, respectively, and the actuarially determined benefit obligations for such plans as of that date were $1,341 million and $272 million, respectively. The expected returns on plan assets used to calculate net periodic costs for periods in 2011 subsequent to the date of the merger are 8.25% for Alleghenys qualified pension plan and 5.00% for Alleghenys OPEB plans.In selecting an assumed discount rate, FirstEnergy considers currently available rates of return on high quality fixed income investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension and OPEB obligations. The assumed discount rates for pensions were 5.00%, 5.50% and 6.00% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The assumed discount rates for OPEB were 4.75%, 5.00% and 5.75% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.FirstEnergys assumed rate of return on pension plan assets considers historical market returns and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the pension trusts. In 2011, FirstEnergys qualified pensions and OPEB plan assets earned $387 million or 6.05% compared to amounts earned of $492 million, or 10.1% in 2010. The qualified pension and OPEB costs in 2011 and 2010 were computed using an assumed 8.25% and 8.50% rate of return, respectively, on plan assets which generated $486 million and $397 million of expected returns on plan assets, respectively. The expected return of pensions and OPEB assets is based on the trusts asset allocation targets and the historical performance of risk based and fixed income securities. The gains or losses generated as a result of the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets will increase or decrease future net periodic pension and OPEB cost as the difference is recognized annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.Based on discounts rates of 5.00% for pension, 4.75% for OPEB and an estimated return on assets of 7.75%, FirstEnergy expects its 2012 pre tax net periodic postemployment benefit credits (including amounts capitalized) to be approximately $117 million (excluding any actuarial mark to market adjustments that would be recognized in 2012). The following table reflects the portion of pensions and OPEB costs that were charged to expense in the three years ended December 31, 2011. Postemployment Benefits Expense (Credits) 2011 2010 2009 (In millions)Pensions $555 $247 $377OPEB (112) (126) (57)Total $443 $121 $320Health care cost trends continue to increase and will affect future OPEB costs. The 2011 composite health care trend rate assumptions were approximately 7.5 8.5%, compared to 8.0 9.0% in 2010, gradually decreasing to 5% in later years. In determining FirstEnergys trend rate assumptions, included are the specific provisions of FirstEnergys health care plans, the demographics and utilization rates of plan participants, actual cost increases experienced in FirstEnergys health care plans, and projections of future medical trend rates. The effect on the pension and OPEB costs from changes in key assumptions are as follows:Increase in Net Periodic Benefit Costs from Adverse Changes in Key AssumptionsAssumption Adverse Change Pensions OPEB Total (In millions) Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% $236 $23 $259Long term return on assets Decrease by 0.25% $16 $1 $17Health care trend rate Increase by 1.0% N/A $27 $27Emission AllowancesFirstEnergy holds emission allowances for SO2 and NOx in order to comply with programs implemented by the EPA designed to regulate emissions of SO2 and NOx produced by power plants. Emission allowances are either granted by the EPA at zero cost or are purchased at fair value as needed to meet emission requirements. Emission allowances are not purchased with the intent of resale. Emission allowances eligible to be used in the current year are recorded in materials and supplies inventory at their weighted average cost. Emission allowances eligible for use in future years are recorded as other investments. FirstEnergy recognizes emission allowance costs as fuel expense during the periods that emissions are produced by generating facilities. Emission allowances that are not needed to meet emission requirements may be sold and are reported as a reduction to other operating expenses. Obsolete or excess emission allowances follow FirstEnergys inventory practice that requires the emission allowances to be recorded at the lower of weighted average cost or market value. See Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets for further information on impairments of emission allowances.101Long Lived AssetsFirstEnergy reviews long lived assets, including regulatory assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of the long lived asset is measured by comparing the long lived assets carrying value to the sum of undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted future cash flows of the long lived asset, impairment exists and a loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Impairments of long lived assets recognized for the year ended December 31, 2011, are described further in Note 11, Impairment of Long Lived Assets. Asset Retirement ObligationsFirstEnergy recognizes an ARO for the future decommissioning of its nuclear power plants and future remediation of other environmental liabilities associated with all of its long lived assets. The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of FirstEnergys current obligation related to nuclear decommissioning and the retirement or remediation of environmental liabilities of other assets. A fair value measurement inherently involves uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability. FirstEnergy uses an expected cash flow approach to measure the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning and environmental remediation ARO. This approach applies probability weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes. The scenarios consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the nuclear power plants current license, settlement based on an extended license term and expected remediation dates. The fair value of an ARO is recognized in the period in which it is incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long lived asset and are depreciated over the life of the related asset. Income TaxesFirstEnergy records income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes. Investment tax credits, which were deferred when utilized, are being amortized over the recovery period of the related property. Deferred income tax liabilities related to temporary tax and accounting basis differences and tax credit carryforward items are recognized at the statutory income tax rates in effect when the liabilities are expected to be paid. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on income tax rates expected to be in effect when they are settled.FirstEnergy accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in its financial statements. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. The Company recognizes interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions. That amount is computed by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized and the amount previously taken or expected to be taken on the tax return. FirstEnergy includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes.GoodwillIn a business combination, the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. In accordance with accounting standards, if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value (including goodwill), the goodwill is tested for impairment. Impairment is indicated and a loss is recognized if the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value of its goodwill.NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSSee Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies for discussion of new accounting pronouncements.102FIRSTENERGY SOLUTIONS CORP.MANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSFES is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES provides energy related products and services to wholesale and retail customers, and through its principal subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC, owns or leases, operates and maintains FirstEnergys fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities (excluding the Allegheny facilities), and owns, through its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergys nuclear generation facilities, respectively. FENOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains the nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned by FGCO and NGC, as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of OE and TE in certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with non affiliates, and pursuant to full output, cost of service PSAs.FES revenues are derived from sales to individual retail customers, sales to communities in the form of governmental aggregation programs, and participation in affiliated and non affiliated POLR auctions. FES sales are primarily concentrated in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland. In 2010, FES also supplied the POLR default service requirements of Met Ed and Penelec.The demand for electricity produced and sold by FES, along with the price of that electricity, is principally impacted by conditions in competitive power markets, global economic activity, economic activity in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions and weather conditions.For additional information with respect to FES, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Guarantees and Other Assurances, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies, Outlook and New Accounting Pronouncements.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $290 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily due to higher operating expenses, an inventory reserve adjustment and the effect of mark to market adjustments, partially offset by lower non core asset impairment charges.RevenuesTotal revenues decreased $351 million, or 6%, in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to reduced POLR and structured sales, partially offset by growth in direct and governmental aggregation sales.The net decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources:Revenues by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct and Governmental Aggregation $3,785 $2,493 $1,292POLR and Structured Sales 944 2,589 (1,645)Wholesale 457 397 60Transmission 108 77 31RECs 67 74 (7)Sale of OVEC participation interest 85 (85)Other 116 113 3Total Revenues $5,477 $5,828 $(351)MWH Sales by Type of Service 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In thousands) Direct 46,187 28,499 62.1 %Governmental Aggregation 17,722 12,796 38.5 %POLR and Structured Sales 15,340 50,358 (69.5)%Wholesale 2,916 5,391 (45.9)%Total Sales 82,165 97,044 (15.3)%103The increase in direct and governmental aggregation revenues of $1.3 billion resulted from the acquisition of new residential, commercial and industrial customers, as well as new governmental aggregation contracts with communities in Ohio and Illinois that provide generation to approximately 1.8 million residential and small commercial customers at the end of 2011 compared to approximately 1.5 million customers at the end of 2010. Increases in direct sales volume were partially offset by lower unit prices. The decrease in POLR and structured sales revenues of $1.6 billion was due to lower sales volumes to Met Ed, Penelec and the Ohio Companies, partially offset by increased sales to non affiliates and higher unit prices to the Pennsylvania Companies. The decline in POLR sales reflects our focus on more profitable sales channels.Wholesale revenues increased $60 million due to higher wholesale prices partially offset by decreased volumes. The lower sales volumes were the result of decreased short term (net hourly positions) transactions in MISO, partially offset by increased short term transactions in PJM. In addition, capacity revenues earned by units that moved to PJM from MISO were partially offset by losses on financially settled sales contracts.The following tables summarize the price and volume factors contributing to changes in revenues from generation sales:Source of Change in Direct and Governmental Aggregation Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Direct Sales: Effect of increase in sales volumes $1,034Change in prices (75) 959Governmental Aggregation: Effect of increase in sales volumes 319Change in prices 14 333Increase in Direct and Government Aggregation Revenues $1,292Source of Change in POLR and Structured Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions) Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(1,800)Change in prices 155 $(1,645) Source of Change in Wholesale Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions) Effect of decrease in sales volumes $(182)Change in prices 242 $60Transmission revenues increased $31 million due primarily to higher congestion revenue. Revenues derived from the sale of RECs decreased $7 million in 2011 compared to 2010.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $34 million in 2011 compared with the 2010.104The following table summarizes the factors contributing to the changes in fuel and purchased power costs in 2011 compared with 2010:Source of Change in Fuel and Purchased Power Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Fossil Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs $26Change due to volume consumed (107) (81) Nuclear Fuel: Change due to increased unit costs 28Change due to volume consumed (6) 22 Non affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to increased unit costs 416Change due to volume purchased (623) (207) Affiliated Purchased Power: Change due to decreased unit costs (84)Change due to volume purchased (45) (129)Net Decrease in Fuel and Purchased Power Costs $(395)Total fuel costs decreased by $59 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010, as a result of reduced generation at the fossil units, partially offset by higher fossil unit costs. Fossil unit costs increased primarily due to increased coal transportation costs. Nuclear fuel expenses increased primarily due to higher unit prices following the refueling outages that occurred in 2010.Non affiliated purchased power costs decreased by $217 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010, due to lower volumes purchased, partially offset by higher unit costs. The decrease in volume relates to the absence in 2011 of a 1,300 MW third party contract associated with serving Met Ed and Penelec that FES no longer has the requirement to serve. Affiliated purchased power costs decreased by $119 million in 2011, compared to the same period of 2010, due to lower unit costs and decreased volumes purchased.Other operating expenses increased by $400 million in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010 due to the following:Transmission expenses increased by $249 million due primarily to increases in congestion, network and line loss expenses.Nuclear operating costs increased $53 million primarily due to Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 refueling outages in 2011. While Davis Besse had a refueling outage in 2010 and an outage in 2011 to replace the reactor vessel head, the work performed on both outages was largely capital related.Fossil operating costs increased $36 million due primarily to higher labor, contractor and material costs resulting from an increase in planned and unplanned outages, which were partially offset by reduced losses from the sale of excess coal.A $54 million provision for excess and obsolete material related to revised inventory practices adopted in connection with the Allegheny merger.Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges increased $64 million as a result of higher net actuarial losses.Impairment charges on long lived assets decreased by $94 million compared to 2010. The 2011 charges were due to the pending shutdown of four coal fired generating units owned by FGCO; charges in 2010 related to operational changes at certain smaller coal fired units.General taxes increased by $30 million due to an increase in revenue related taxes.Provision for depreciation increased by $29 million due to the AQC projects being placed in service at the end of 2010.105Other ExpenseTotal other expense increased by $41 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to a $57 million decrease in capitalized interest associated with the completion of the Sammis AQC project in 2010, partially offset by lower interest expense ($5 million). Market Risk InformationFES uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskFES is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. FES uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FES relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FES uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (15) 11 20 8 24Prices based on models (6) (2) (8) (16)Total $(21) $11 $20 $8 $(2) $(8) $8(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.FES performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $7 million during the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskFES exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for FES investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $1,025 $1,025 $1,025Average interest rate 6.5% 6.5% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $68 $75 $99 $450 $26 $2,445 $3,163 $3,419Average interest rate 9.0% 9.0% 7.3% 5.1% 7.7% 5.1% 5.4% Variable rate $512 $512 $512Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% 106Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy NGCs nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in FESs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $1,025 million, $124 million and $132 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding ($58) million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $12 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. NGC recognized in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of FESs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. FES evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. FES may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. FES monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.Wholesale Credit RiskFES measures wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for derivatives in power, natural gas, coal and emission allowances, adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where FES has a legally enforceable right of setoff. FES monitors and manages the credit risk of wholesale marketing, risk management and energy transacting operation through credit policies and procedures, which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral and the use of master netting agreements. FES aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (S&P).Retail Credit RiskFES is exposed to retail credit risk through competitive electricity activities, which serve residential, commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on contractual obligations or fail to pay for service rendered. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of customer accounts receivable balances, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve customers. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit approval policies, monitoring customer exposures and the use of credit mitigation measures such as deposits in the form of letters of credit, cash or prepayment arrangements. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, FESs retail credit risk may be adversely impacted.107OHIO EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio and, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Penn, 1,100 square miles in western Pennsylvania. OE and Penn conduct business in portions of Ohio and Pennsylvania, providing regulated electric distribution services and procurement of generation services for those franchise customers electing to retain them as their power supplier. The areas served by OE and Penn have populations of approximately 2.3 million and 0.4 million, respectively.For additional information with respect to OE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $27 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease primarily resulted from lower revenues and higher other operating expenses, partially offset by lower purchased power costs. RevenuesRevenues decreased by $203 million, or 11%, in 2011 compared with 2010 due to lower retail generation revenues, partially offset by higher distribution and wholesale generation revenues.Distribution revenues increased by $69 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to increased MWH deliveries and higher average prices in all customer classes. The higher MWH deliveries in the residential class were driven primarily by increased load growth partially offset by lower weather related usage. The increase in distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers was primarily due to recovering economic conditions in OEs and Penns service territories. Higher average prices in all customer classes were principally due to the recovery of deferred distribution costs.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase Residential 0.3%Commercial 0.7%Industrial 5.4%Increase in Distribution Deliveries 2.0%Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions)Residential $26Commercial 17Industrial 26Increase in Distribution Revenues $69Retail generation revenues decreased by $277 million primarily due to a decrease in MWH sales from increased customer shopping and lower average prices in all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. OE and Penn defer the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Lower MWH sales were primarily the result of increased customer shopping in 2011. The increases in shopping by residential, commercial and industrial customers were 18%, 11% and 7%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010.108Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (28.8)%Commercial (34.0)%Industrial (22.6)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (28.3)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(166)Commercial (74)Industrial (37)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(277)Wholesale generation revenues increased by $12 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to higher revenues from sales to NGC from OEs leasehold interests in Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $175 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(279)Other operating expenses 109Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 19Provision for depreciation 2Amortization of regulatory assets, net (33)General taxes 7Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(175)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced generation sales requirements coupled with lower unit costs. The increase in other operating expenses in 2011 compared to the same period of 2010 was principally due to expenses associated with nuclear refueling outages at OEs leased Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2 that were absent in 2010. Decreased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges are the result of lower net actuarial losses in 2011 compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to higher deferred residential generation credits in 2011. General taxes increased as a result of higher property taxes.Interest Rate RiskOEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for OEs investment portfolio and debt obligations.109Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $31 $36 $42 $37 $13 $138 $297 $318Average interest rate 8.7% 8.8% 8.8% 8.9% 8.9% 4.4% 6.8% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $250 $757 $1,157 $1,434Average interest rate 5.5% 6.4% 7.3% 6.9% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in OEs NDT are fixed income and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $134 million and $1 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. OE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in its NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of OEs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $4 million was contributed to OEs NDT to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which OE continues as a lessee. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. OE evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. OE may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. OE monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.110THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSCEI is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. CEI provides regulated electric distribution services in an area of 1,600 square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.7 million. CEI also procures generation services for those customers electing to retain them as their power supplier.For additional information with respect to CEI, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, CEI filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by CEI with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsEarnings available to parent decreased by $5 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to decreased revenues, partially offset by lower purchased power costs and amortization of regulatory assets. RevenuesRevenues decreased $345 million, or 28%, in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower retail generation and distribution revenues.Distribution revenues decreased $78 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower average unit prices in all customer classes offset by increased MWH deliveries to the industrial sector. The lower average unit prices were the result of the absence of transition charges in 2011. Lower residential and commercial deliveries resulted from decreased weather related usage in 2011. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in CEIs service territory.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential (0.3)%Commercial (0.4)%Industrial 1.4 %Net Increase in Distribution Deliveries 0.2 %Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(12)Commercial (7)Industrial (59)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(78)Retail generation revenues decreased $265 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to lower MWH sales to all customer classes that resulted from increased customer shopping and lower average unit prices for the commercial and residential customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. CEI defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. Lower MWH sales were the result of increased shopping by residential, commercial and industrial customers of 15%, 8% and 36%, respectively, in 2011 compared to 2010. Lower average unit prices in the residential customer class were primarily due to the lower auction price in 2011.111Changes in retail generation sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (38.8)%Commercial (37.6)%Industrial (71.3)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (52.2)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(88)Commercial (77)Industrial (100)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(265)Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $336 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(254)Other operating costs 15Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 8Provision for depreciation 1Amortization of regulatory assets, net (117)General taxes 11Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(336)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 primarily due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced sales requirements as a result of increased customer shopping. Other operating expenses increased due to 2011 inventory valuation adjustments. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Amortization of regulatory assets decreased primarily due to the completion of transition cost recovery at the end of 2010 and higher deferred purchased power costs in 2011, partially offset by increased recovery of deferred distribution costs and the absence in 2011 of renewable energy credit expenses that were deferred in 2010. General taxes increased due to increased property taxes as compared to 2010.Interest Rate RiskCEIs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for CEIs investment portfolio and debt obligations.112Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $66 $75 $80 $50 $16 $287 $315Average interest rate 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 8.0% 7.7% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $325 $26 $24 $6 $1,450 $1,831 $2,162Average interest rate 5.8% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 6.8% 6.7% Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. CEI evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. CEI may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. CEI monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.113THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSTE is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. TE provides regulated electric distribution services in an area of 2,300 square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.7 million. TE also provides generation services to those customers electing to retain them as their power supplier.For additional information with respect to TE, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, TE filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by TE with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsEarnings available to parent decreased by $2 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily from lower revenues and higher other operating expenses, partially offset by lower purchased power costs from affiliates. RevenuesRevenues decreased $40 million, or 8%, in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower retail generation sales, partially offset by an increase in distribution revenues.Distribution revenues increased $28 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher MWH deliveries to residential and industrial customers and higher unit prices to all customer classes related to increased energy efficiency rider rates, partially offset by lower MWH deliveries to commercial customers. Higher MWH deliveries to residential customers reflected increased load growth slightly offset by lower weather related usage that also drove lower deliveries to commercial customers. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in TEs service territory. Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential 0.3 %Commercial (1.9)%Industrial 2.4 %Net Increase in Distribution Deliveries 1.0 %Distribution Revenues Increase (In millions)Residential $11Commercial 9Industrial 8Increase in Distribution Revenues $28Retail generation revenues decreased $79 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower MWH sales from increased customer shopping and lower unit prices to all customer classes. The increases in shopping for residential, commercial and industrial customers were 13%, 9%, and 4%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. TE defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings. 114Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (27.9)%Commercial (39.7)%Industrial (10.1)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (20.5)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(28)Commercial (21)Industrial (30)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(79)Wholesale revenues increased $12 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher revenues from sales to NGC from TEs leasehold interest in Beaver Valley Unit 2.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $37 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(76)Other operating expenses 31Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 6General taxes 2Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(37)Purchased power costs decreased in 2011 compared to 2010, due to lower MWH purchases resulting from reduced generation sales requirements in 2011 coupled with lower unit costs. The increase in other operating costs in 2011 was primarily due to expenses associated with the 2011 nuclear refueling outage at the leased Beaver Valley Unit 2 and an Ohio Supreme Court decision rendered in the second quarter of 2011 favoring a large industrial customer, both of which were absent in 2010. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010.Other ExpenseOther expense decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, due to a decrease in miscellaneous expense partially offset by lower investment income. The change in miscellaneous expense was due to decreased expenses associated with the accounts receivable securitization with Centerior Funding Corp., which was terminated in 2011 Investment income decreased principally due to lower NDT investment income. Interest Rate RiskTEs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for TEs investment portfolio and debt obligations.115Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $25 $26 $24 $6 $53 $134 $145Average interest rate 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 4.6% 6.4% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $600 $600 $741Average interest rate 6.7% 6.7% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in TEs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $53 million, $27 million and $3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. TE recognizes in earnings the unrealized losses on available for sale securities held in their NDT as OTTI. A decline in the value of TEs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million was contributed to TEs NDT to comply with requirements under certain sale leaseback transactions in which TE continues as a lessee. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. TE evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. TE may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. TE monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.116JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSJCP&L is a wholly owned, electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. JCP&L conducts business in New Jersey, providing regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.7 million. JCP&L also has an ownership interest in a hydroelectric generating facility. In addition, JCP&L also procures generation services for franchise customers electing to retain them as their power supplier. JCP&L procures electric supply to serve its BGS customers through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU.For additional information with respect to JCP&L, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.Results of OperationsNet income decreased by $39 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues, partially offset by reductions in purchased power costs and amortization of regulatory assets.RevenuesRevenues decreased by $532 million, or 18%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in revenues was due to lower distribution, retail generation and wholesale generation revenues, partially offset by an increase in other revenues.Distribution revenues decreased by $187 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to an NJBPU approved rate adjustment that became effective March 1, 2011 for all customer classes, and lower MWH deliveries. The lower MWH deliveries to residential customers were influenced by decreased weather related usage in 2011. Lower distribution deliveries to commercial and industrial customers reflected the impact of economic conditions in JCP&Ls service territory.Decreases in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Decrease Residential (3.0)%Commercial (2.9)%Industrial (3.0)%Decrease in Distribution Deliveries (2.9)%Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(90)Commercial (79)Industrial (18)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(187)Retail generation revenues decreased by $301 million due to lower generation MWH sales in all customer classes primarily due to an increase in customer shopping. The increases in shopping for residential, commercial and industrial customers were 10%, 9% and 5%, respectively, in 2011 compared with 2010. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. JCP&L defers the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to earnings.117Decreases in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (13.0)%Commercial (23.0)%Industrial (29.0)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (16.3)%Retail Generation Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(181)Commercial (108)Industrial (12)Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(301)Wholesale generation revenues decreased by $54 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to a decrease in PJM spot market energy sales.Other revenues increased by $10 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to increases in PJM network transmission revenues and transition bond revenues from increased rates.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $461 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(354)Other operating expenses 48Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 34Provision for depreciation 22Amortization of regulatory assets, net (213)General taxes 2Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(461)Purchased power costs decreased by $354 million in 2011 due to lower requirements from reduced retail generation sales. Other operating expenses increased by $48 million in 2011 principally from storm restoration maintenance costs. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Amortization of regulatory assets, net, decreased by $213 million due to reduced cost recovery under the NJBPU approved NUG tariffs that became effective March 1, 2011 and higher deferred storm restoration costs, partially offset by a charge for nonrecoverable NUG costs.Market Risk InformationJCP&L uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.Commodity Price RiskJCP&L is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. JCP&L uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, JCP&L relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future 118regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. JCP&L uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (52) (43) (36) (14) (145)Prices based on models 1 1 2Total(3) $(52) $(43) $(36) $(14) $1 $1 $(143)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(143) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.JCP&L performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on JCP&Ls net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskJCP&Ls exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since all of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for JCP&Ls investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $363 $363 $363Average interest rate 5.2% 5.2% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $34 $36 $38 $41 $343 $1,285 $1,777 $2,080Average interest rate 5.7% 5.7% 5.9% 6.0% 5.7% 6.2% 6.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in JCP&Ls NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $147 million, $30 million and $14 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. JCP&Ls NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline in the value of JCP&Ls NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. During 2011, approximately $1 million was contributed to JCP&Ls NDT to comply with regulatory requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. JCP&L evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. JCP&L may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. JCP&L monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.119METROPOLITAN EDISON COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSMet Ed is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Met Ed provides regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 3,300 square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.2 million. Met Ed also procures generation service for those franchise customers who have elected to retain them as their power supplier. Met Ed procures power under its DSP, in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services, and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions.For additional information with respect to Met Ed, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, Met Ed filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by Met Ed with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsNet income increased by $8 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase was primarily due to decreased purchased power costs, other operating expenses and amortization of net regulatory assets partially offset by decreased revenues.RevenuesRevenue decreased $606 million, or 33%, in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting lower distribution, retail generation, wholesale generation and transmission revenues.Distribution revenues decreased $336 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to lower rates resulting from the DSP that began in 2011 that eliminated the transmission component from the distribution rates. The lower MWH deliveries to residential and commercial customers were influenced by decreased weather related usage in 2011. In the industrial sector, MWH deliveries increased primarily as a result of recovering economic conditions in Met Eds service territory.Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase (Decrease) Residential (1.4)%Commercial (2.0)%Industrial 2.2 %Net Decrease in Distribution Deliveries (0.2)%Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(133)Commercial (90)Industrial (113)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(336)In 2011, retail generation revenues decreased $52 million due to lower MWH sales to all customer classes resulting from increased customer shopping. The impact of increased customer shopping is partially offset by higher generation rates that reflect the inclusion of transmission services under the DSP, effective January 1, 2011, for all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. In 2011, Met Ed began deferring the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings.120Changes in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011 compared to 2010 are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales DecreaseResidential (3.8)%Commercial (49.1)%Industrial (91.8)%Net Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (45.7)%Retail Generation Revenues Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Residential $166Commercial (24)Industrial (194)Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(52)Wholesale revenues decreased $210 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily reflecting lower RPM revenues for Met Ed in the PJM market.Transmission revenues decreased $9 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the termination of Met Eds TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. Met Ed deferred the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to earnings in the period.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased $608 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs $(328)Other operating costs (230)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 26Provision for depreciation 5Amortization of regulatory assets, net (68)General taxes (13)Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(608)Purchased power costs decreased $328 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to a decrease in MWH purchased to source generation sales requirements, partially offset by higher unit costs. Decreased power purchased from affiliates reflects the increase in customer shopping described above and the termination of Met Eds partial requirements PSA with FES at the end of 2010. Other operating costs decreased $230 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses that are now included in the cost of purchased power (see reference to deferral accounting above), partially offset by increased costs for energy efficiency programs. Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment changes were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets decreased $68 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the termination of transmission and transition tariff riders at the end of 2010. General taxes decreased by $13 million in 2011 primarily due to lower gross receipts taxes.Other ExpenseInterest income decreased by $3 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to reduced CTC stranded asset balances.Market Risk InformationMet Ed uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.121Commodity Price RiskMet Ed is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. Met Ed uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Met Ed relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Met Ed uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (62) (7) (6) (5) (80)Prices based on models 8 42 50Total(3) $(62) $(7) $(6) $(5) $8 $42 $(30)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(30) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.Met Ed performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Met Eds net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskMet Eds exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Met Eds investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $234 $234 $234Average interest rate 3.3% 3.3% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $250 $300 $700 $796Average interest rate 5.0% 4.9% 7.7% 6.1% Variable rate $29 $29 $29Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Met Eds NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $234 million, $51 million and $23 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $2 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $5 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. Met Eds NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline 122in the value of Met Eds NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements. Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Met Ed evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. Met Ed may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. Met Ed monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.123PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC COMPANYMANAGEMENTS NARRATIVEANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONSPenelec is a wholly owned electric utility subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Penelec provides regulated electric transmission and distribution services in 17,600 square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.3 million. Penelec, as lessee of the property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, serves customers in the Waverly, New York vicinity. Penelec also procures generation service for those franchise customers who have elected to retain them as their power supplier. Penelec procures power under its DSP, in which full requirements products (energy, capacity, ancillary services and applicable transmission services) are procured through descending clock auctions.For additional information with respect to Penelec, please see the information contained in FirstEnergys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the following subheadings, which information is incorporated by reference herein: Strategy and Outlook, Risks and Challenges, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Contractual Obligations, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, Other Legal Proceedings, Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations.On January 25, 2012, Penelec filed a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister its securities and suspend its obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except that the registrant has filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report on Form 10 K will be the last filing made by Penelec with the SEC under the Exchange Act.Results of OperationsNet income was unchanged in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower purchased power costs, other operating expenses and income taxes, partially offset by lower revenues and higher amortization of regulatory assets.RevenuesRevenues decreased by $459 million, or 30%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower distribution, retail generation, wholesale generation and transmission revenues.Distribution revenues decreased by $93 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to lower rates resulting from the DSP, which eliminated the transmission component from the distribution rate beginning in 2011, partially offset by a PPUC approved rate adjustment for NUG costs. Lower MWH deliveries to residential and commercial customers reflected decreased weather related usage compared to 2010. Higher MWH deliveries to industrial customers were primarily due to recovering economic conditions in Penelecs service territory, compared to 2010. Changes in distribution MWH deliveries and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Distribution MWH Deliveries Increase(Decrease) Residential (2.2)%Commercial (3.7)%Industrial 4.5 %Net Decrease in Distribution Deliveries 0.1 %Distribution Revenues Decrease (In millions)Residential $(35)Commercial (31)Industrial (27)Decrease in Distribution Revenues $(93)Retail generation revenues decreased by $218 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower MWH sales in all customer classes resulting from increased customer shopping. The impact of customer shopping was partially offset by higher generation rates that reflect the inclusion of transmission services under the DSP, effective January 1, 2011, for all customer classes. Retail generation obligations are attributable to non shopping customers and are satisfied by generation procured through full requirements auctions. In 2011, Penelec began deferring the difference between retail generation revenues and purchased power costs, resulting in no material effect to current period earnings.124Changes in retail generation MWH sales and revenues in 2011, compared to 2010, are summarized in the following tables:Retail Generation MWH Sales Decrease Residential (8.5)%Commercial (53.6)%Industrial (92.5)%Decrease in Retail Generation Sales (53.1)%Retail Generation Revenues Increase(Decrease) (In millions)Residential $87Commercial (78)Industrial (227)Net Decrease in Retail Generation Revenues $(218)Wholesale generation revenues decreased by $205 million in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting lower RPM revenues for Penelec in the PJM market.Transmission revenues decreased by $7 million in 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to the termination of Penelecs TSC rates effective January 1, 2011. Penelec deferred the difference between transmission revenues and transmission costs incurred, resulting in no material effect to earnings for the period.Operating ExpensesTotal operating expenses decreased by $446 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. The following table presents changes from the prior year by expense category:Operating Expenses Changes Increase (Decrease) (In millions)Purchased power costs (467)Other operating costs (99)Pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment 33Provision for depreciation (3)Amortization of regulatory assets, net 97General taxes (7)Net Decrease in Operating Expenses $(446)Purchased power costs decreased by $467 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to a decrease in MWH purchased to source generation sales requirements. Decreased power purchased from affiliates resulted from reduced requirements due to the increase in customer shopping described above and the termination of Penelecs partial requirements PSA with FES at the end of 2010. Other operating costs decreased by $99 million in 2011 due to lower transmission congestion and transmission loss expenses that are now included in the cost of purchased power (see reference to deferral accounting above). Increased pensions and OPEB mark to market adjustment charges were due to higher net actuarial losses in 2011 as compared to 2010. The amortization of regulatory assets increased by $97 million in 2011 primarily due to reduced NUG deferrals as a result of the PPUC approved increase in Penelecs NUG cost recovery rider in January 2011.Other ExpensesOther expenses decreased by $3 million in 2011, compared to 2010, due to lower income from jobbing and contracting work and lower capitalized interest.Market Risk InformationPenelec uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.125Commodity Price RiskPenelec is exposed to financial risks resulting from fluctuating interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas and energy transmission. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice. Penelec uses a variety of derivative instruments for risk management purposes including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps.The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, Penelec relies on model based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. Penelec uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sources of information for the valuation of commodity derivative contract assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, are summarized by year in the following table:Source of Information Fair Value by Contract Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (In millions)Prices actively quoted(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $Other external sources(2) (85) (12) (10) (11) (118)Prices based on models 1 (3) (2)Total(3) $(85) $(12) $(10) $(11) $1 $(3) $(120)(1) Represents exchange traded New York Mercantile Exchange futures and options. (2) Primarily represents contracts based on broker and IntercontinentalExchange quotes.(3) Includes $(120) million in non hedge commodity derivative contracts that are related to NUG contracts. NUG contracts are subject to regulatory accounting and do not materially impact earnings.Penelec performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. Based on derivative contracts held as of December 31, 2011, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would not have a material effect on Penelecs net income for the next 12 months.Interest Rate RiskPenelecs exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of its debt has fixed interest rates. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for Penelecs investment portfolio and debt obligations.Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair ValueYear of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There after Total Fair Value (In millions)Assets: Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents: Fixed Income $195 $195 $195Average interest rate 3.8% 3.8% Liabilities: Long term Debt: Fixed rate $150 $925 $1,075 $1,206Average interest rate 5.1% 5.9% 5.8% Variable rate $45 $45 $45Average interest rate 0.1% 0.1% Equity Price RiskNDT funds have been established to satisfy nuclear decommissioning obligations. Included in Penelecs NDT are fixed income, equities and short term investments carried at market values of approximately $106 million, $26 million and $33 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, excluding $1 million of net receivables, payables and accrued income. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $3 million reduction in fair value as of December 31, 2011. Penelecs NDT is subject to regulatory accounting, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities, since the difference between investments held in trust and the decommissioning liabilities will be recovered from or refunded to customers. A decline 126in the value of Penelecs NDT or a significant escalation in estimated decommissioning costs could result in additional funding requirements.Credit RiskCredit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Penelec evaluates the credit standing of a prospective counterparty based on the prospective counterpartys financial condition. Penelec may impose specified collateral requirements and use standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows. Penelec monitors the financial conditions of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. An independent risk management group oversees credit risk.127ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThe information required by ITEM 7A relating to market risk is set forth in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.128
 
