FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20040114160055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006-1813
 
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On January 14, 2004, Danaher Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release preliminary financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2003.  A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  This Form 8-K, the information contained herein, and the attached exhibit are furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or a fter the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing.
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
2099 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE
 
 
 
DANAHER CORPORATION COMMENTS ON FOURTH QUARTER ESTIMATES
Washington, D.C., January 14, 2004 - Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) today commented on estimates for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2003.  Preliminary financial results indicate revenues for the fourth quarter increased approximately 17 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2002.  Of the 17 percent increase, revenues from existing operations are expected to account for an approximately six percent increase over the same period in 2002, exceeding previous estimates of a two to four percent increase.  Danaher defines revenue growth from existing operations as revenue increases over the comparable prior period, excluding revenue attributable to currency gains and losses as well as businesses acquired subsequent to the comparable prior period.
The current Thompson Financial First Call consensus range for the Company's fourth quarter earnings is $0.91 to $0.95 per share which does not include the previously announced $0.09 per share gain the Company expects to record in the fourth quarter related to curtailment of the Company's cash balance pension plan in the United States.  Adding the $.09 per share gain to the consensus range would result in a revised range of $1.00 to $1.04 per share.  The Company expects that earnings for the quarter will meet or slightly exceed the upper end of this revised range.
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer of Process / Environmental Controls and Tools and Components (www.danaher.com).
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including statements characterized by terminology such as "indicates," "expected," "expects" and "would," may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties.  These include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, competitive and technological factors, and the fact that the financial measures presented in this release have not been audited, among other factors as set forth in the company's SEC filings.


