FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20050824081142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
As reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 28, 2005, on July 25, 2005, Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Danaher"), Edelweiss Holdings ApS, a Danish corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Danaher ("Offeror"), and Leica Geosystems Holdings AG, a Swiss corporation ("Leica Geosystems"), entered into a transaction agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") by which Offeror agreed to commence a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Leica Geosystems. On July 28, 2005, Offeror commenced a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Leica Geosystems for a purchase price of CHF500 per share. On August 18, 2005, the parties executed a termination agreement (the "Termination Agreement") by which they mutually agreed to terminate the Transaction Agreement. Following the termination of the Transaction Agreement, Offeror's offer remains open for acceptance.
 
The foregoing description of the Termination Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Termination Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On August 19, 2005, Danaher issued a press release commenting on Leica Geosystem's press release of the same date and determination to adopt a neutral position as between Danaher's offer and the offer of a competing bidder. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 22, 2005
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
TERMINATION AGREEMENT (this "Termination Agreement"), dated as of August 18, 2005, by and among Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation and with IRS Employer Identification No. 59-1995548 ("Parent"), Edelweiss Holdings ApS, a company organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Denmark and registered with the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency under CVR-no. 28899505 and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Buyer"), and Leica Geosystems Holdings AG, a joint stock company () organized under the laws of Switzerland and registered in Balgach at the following address: Heinrich-Wild-Strasse, 9435 Heerbrugg, Switzerland (the "Company"). Each of Parent, Buyer and the Company a "Party" and together the "Parties".
socit anonyme, Aktiengesellschaft
 
WHEREAS, the Parties wish to mutually terminate the Transaction Agreement dated as of July 25, 2005, among the Parties (the "Transaction Agreement"), and to release and discharge the other Parties of all arrangements, commitments, contracts and understandings provided for by the Transaction Agreement;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1. . The Parties hereby terminate the Transaction Agreement by mutual consent in accordance with Section 7(i) of the Transaction Agreement with immediate effect on the date hereof.
Termination
 
Section 2. . This Termination Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of Switzerland, without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law and Arbitration
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Termination Agreement as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DANAHER COMMENTS ON LEICA GEOSYSTEMS' PRESS RELEASE AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEUTRALITY
 
WASHINGTON, D.C., August 19, 2005  Danaher Corporation ("Danaher") notes today's press release from Leica Geosystems Holdings AG ("Leica") and the fact that the Board of directors of Leica "will, based on the currently available information, adopt a neutral position as between the Danaher Offer and the Improved Hexagon Offer". Danaher also acknowledges the mutually agreed termination of its transaction agreement with Leica.
 
Danaher confirms that its offer of CHF500 in cash per Leica share remains open for acceptance and according to the Takeover Regulations will be extended to coincide with Hexagon's offer, currently requested by Hexagon to close on the 23
rd
September 2005.
 
Danaher continues to believe that Leica's shareholders should carefully consider the underlying value of Hexagon's offer. Danaher has raised a number of issues concerning the underlying value of the shares offered by Hexagon in its revised offer, including the liquidity of the Hexagon shares, Hexagon's high net debt levels following the offer and the inferior voting rights of the Hexagon B shares. In addition, Hexagon has still not clarified the impact of its proposed rights issue on Leica shareholders who accept the Hexagon offer and the fact that such accepting shareholders may be required to reinvest up to CHF37 per Leica share in additional Hexagon B shares to avoid dilution.
 
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer of Professional Instrumentation, Industrial Technologies, and Tools and Components. (www.danaher.com)
 
This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for any securities pursuant to the Danaher offer or otherwise. Reference is made to the Danaher offer prospectus and any supplements thereto by and on the terms of which the Danaher offer is being made. Terms and expressions defined in the Danaher offer prospectus apply in this announcement unless otherwise stated. The release, publication or distribution of this announcement in certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law and therefore persons in any such jurisdictions into which this announcement is released, published or distributed should inform themselves about and observe such restrictions.
 
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between Leica and Danaher, the expected timetable for completing the transaction and any other statements about future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including the ability to consummate the transaction and the other factors described in Danaher's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. Danaher disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this release.
 
Please contact:
 
Andy Wilson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Danaher Corporation
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 828-0850
Fax: (202) 828-0860
 
In Zurich
Steven Loepfe
Peter Btikofer & Company AG
Nordbrcke 4
8037 Zrich
Telephone: +41 44 447 12 12
Fax: +41 44 447 12 92


