FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20061018190051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2006, Danaher Corporation issued a press release announcing earnings for the three months and nine months ended September 29, 2006. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by Danaher pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 18, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
DANAHER ANNOUNCES RECORD THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
WASHINGTON, D.C., October 19, 2006  Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) announced today that net earnings for its third quarter ended September 29, 2006 were $268 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, 17% higher than its 2005 third quarter net earnings of $229 million, or $0.70 per diluted share. Including stock-based compensation expense in both years, adjusted net earnings would have increased 21% over the comparable net earnings for 2005.
Sales for the 2006 third quarter were $2,443 million, 24% higher than the $1,966 million reported for the 2005 third quarter.
Net earnings for the first nine months of 2006 were $798 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, compared with $646 million, or $1.98 per diluted share for 2005, an increase of 24%. Included in 2006 year-to-date results were an after-tax gain of $0.03 per share related to the sale of an interest in shares of First Technology PLC and the after tax gain of approximately $0.16 per share from certain tax reserve reductions. Excluding these items from 2006 net earnings, and excluding from 2005 net earnings items which aggregate to a net gain of $0.04 per share, and including the impact of stock-based compensation on 2005 net earnings, adjusted earnings per diluted share for the first nine months of 2006 would have been $2.29, a 22% increase over the adjusted earnings per diluted share for the comparable period of 2005. Included in the attached reconciliation is a description of each item excluded from adjusted earnings per diluted share for each period.
Sales for the first nine months of 2006 were $6,936 million compared to $5,721 million for the first nine months of 2005, an increase of 21%.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are pleased to report record quarterly earnings. Revenue growth from existing businesses, also known as core revenues, remained strong and accounted for over six and one-half percent growth. Our operating cash flow for the first nine months of 2006 was $1,084 million, another record. Our performance year-to-date combined with the continued strength we see across our businesses reinforces our confidence in our ability to deliver positive results for the remainder of 2006."
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer of Professional Instrumentation, Industrial Technologies, and Tools and Components. (www.danaher.com)
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statement regarding expectations for the remainder of 2006 and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, may be "forward-looking" statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, competition, our ability to develop and successfully market new products and technologies, our ability to expand our business in new geographic markets, our ability to identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property matters, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our ability to achieve projected efficiencies, cost reductions, sales growth and earnings, economic conditions in the end-markets we sell into, commodity costs and surcharges, currency exchange rates, tax audits, and general domestic and international economic conditions. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Third Quarter 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statement.
To download a copy of the full earnings report, please go to www.danaher.com
Please contact:
Andy Wilson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Danaher Corporation
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 828-0850
Fax: (202) 828-0860
 
See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
A complete copy of Danaher's Form 10-Q financial statements is available on the Company's website
().
www.danaher.com
Danaher Corporation
Supplemental Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share
Three and Nine Months Ended September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005
 
 
NOTE: In addition to the results provided in this release in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the non-GAAP measure of adjusted diluted earnings per share (the "non-GAAP measure") which compares diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 to diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended September 29, 2006 on a basis which:
 
 
 
The non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, diluted earnings per share calculated according to GAAP. Danaher's non-GAAP measure may be defined differently than similar non-GAAP measures that are used by other companies.
Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, provide a more complete understanding of Danaher's performance compared to previous periods and forecasts, and helps identify underlying trends in Danaher's business. We believe that adjusting diluted earnings per share for the 2005 period to include stock-based compensation expense helps to provide a better understanding of actual year-over-year changes in the business (as opposed to changes in accounting treatment between years). The other items that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measure are items that occur with inconsistent frequency and for reasons that may be unrelated to the Danaher's commercial performance during the period.
Danaher management references the non-GAAP measure in assessing current performance and making decisions about internal budgets, resource allocation and financial goals for its business units. Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure helps investors and others, if they so choose, in understanding and evaluating Danaher's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does. In addition, Danaher believes that analysts and others in the investment community use the non-GAAP measure to assess Danaher's performance, identify trends in Danaher's performance and provide estimates of future performance.
A general limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that use of the non-GAAP measure (as compared to the related GAAP measure) may reduce comparability with other companies who may calculate similar non-GAAP measures differently. Another limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that it does not include all items of income and expense that affect Danaher's operations (and includes expenses that did not affect Danaher's operations), and excludes items of income or expense that may recur in the course of Danaher's business (though at times and in amounts that may be difficult to predict). Danaher management compensates for these and other limitations of the non-GAAP measure by also considering Danaher's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
The Company also provides in the release the non-GAAP measure of adjusted net earnings which includes stock-based compensation expense in net earnings for the first nine months of 2005. The explanation set forth in this note also applies to the non-GAAP measure of adjusted net earnings.
 


