FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20060511164237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
$2,200,000,000 Global Commercial Paper Program
On May 5, 2006, Danaher Corporation, as Issuer ("Danaher"), entered into a dealer agreement (the "U.S. Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the "U.S. Dealer") and a Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "U.S. Agency Agreement") and related documents in connection with the establishment of a U.S. commercial paper program (the "U.S. Program"). On May 8, 2006, Danaher European Finance S.A., a Luxembourg domiciled indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Danaher that was established on May 5, 2006 to provide financing for Danaher's European businesses, as Issuer ("DEFSA"), and Danaher, as Guarantor, entered into a dealer agreement (the "Euro Agreement" and, together with the U.S. Agreement, the "Dealer Agreements") with Lehman Brothers International (Europe) as Arranger and Dealer (the "Euro Dealer" and, together with the U.S. Dealer, the "Dealers") and an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch (the "Euro Agency Agreement" and together with the U.S. Agency Agreement, the "Agency Agreements"), and related documents in connection with a euro-commercial paper program (the "Euro Program" and together with the U.S. Program, the "Global Commercial Paper Program"). Danaher anticipates using proceeds from initial issuances under the Global Commercial Paper Program principally to fund its proposed acquisition of Sybron Dental Specialties Inc. Danaher also may use proceeds from issuances under the Global Commercial Paper Program for general corporate purposes, including in connection with acquisitions.
The Dealer Agreements provide the terms under which the Dealers will either purchase from Danaher or DEFSA, as the case may be, or arrange for the sale by Danaher or DEFSA, as the case may be, of unsecured commercial paper notes (the "Notes"), pursuant to an exemption from federal and state securities laws. The Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. The maturities of the Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days, if issued under the U.S. Program, or 183 days, if issued under the Euro Program, from the date of issue. The principal amount of outstanding Notes under the Global Program may not exceed $2,200,000,000. The Notes will not be redeemable prior to maturity and will not be subject to voluntary prepayment. The Notes will bear interest at rates that will vary based on market conditions and the ratings assigned by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance of the Notes. The Agency Agreements provide for the issuance and payment of the Notes and contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions.
The Dealers and certain of their respective affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Danaher and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses. The description above is a summary of the Dealer Agreements and the Agency Agreements and is qualified in its entirety by the Dealer Agreements and the Agency Agreements, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, and 10.4 and are incorporated by reference herein.
$700 Million Credit Facility
On May 9, 2006, Danaher Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $700 million multicurrency revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with UBS Securities LLC, as Syndication Agent, Documentation Agent, Lead Arranger and Book Manager, UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as Administrative Agent, and a syndicate of lenders from time to time party thereto. The Credit Agreement expires on May 8, 2007. The description of the Credit Agreement set forth herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is referenced as Exhibit 10.5 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest as follows: (1) Eurocurrency Rate Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) bear interest at a variable rate equal to London inter-bank offered rate plus a margin of between 13.5 and 30 basis points, depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time, plus a specified, per annum mandatory cost intended to compensate the lenders for the cost of complying with certain European regulatory requirements; and (2) Base Rate Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) bear interest at a variable rate equal to the higher of (a) the Federal funds rate (as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from time to time) plus 1/2 of 1%, and (b) UBS's prime rate as publicly announced from time to time. In addition, Danaher is required to pay a per annum facility fee of between 4 and 10 basis points (depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time) based on the aggregate commitments under the Credit Agreement, and in certain circumstances a utilization fee of between 5 and 10 basis points (depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time) based on the outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement. In the event that the credit ratings assigned to Danaher by nationally recognized debt rating agencies are downgraded as set forth in the Credit Agreement, the interest rate, facility fees and utilization fees under the revolving credit facility are subject to incremental upward adjustments. The Credit Agreement requires Danaher to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. The revolving credit facility is prepayable in whole or in part without premium or penalty, subject to the prepayment of an additional fee, under certain circumstances.
Danaher's obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. Danaher has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the obligations of each of its subsidiaries in the event a subsidiary is named a borrower under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Danaher and certain of its subsidiaries to: enter into agreements restricting such subsidiaries from making payments to or guaranteeing the obligations of Danaher; incur liens; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; enter into mergers or consolidations; enter into transactions with affiliates; and use proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement for other than permitted uses. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications. Certain changes of control would constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement.
Certain of the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, and their respective affiliates, have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Danaher and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information described above under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement$700 Million Credit Facility" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03. In addition, the information described above under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement$2,200,000,000 Global Commercial Paper Program" related to the U.S. Program, to the extent such obligations constitute a payment obligation under a borrowing arrangement that is scheduled to mature in one year or more, also is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This agreement as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time (the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings between the Issuer and the Dealer, each named on the cover page hereof, in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer represents and warrants that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
 
 
 
Notes (including any downgrading or receipt of any notice of intended downgrading in the rating accorded any of the Issuer's securities by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization which has published a rating of the Notes), promptly, and in any event prior to any subsequent issuance of Notes hereunder, notify the Dealer (by telephone, confirmed in writing) of such change, development or occurrence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, (i) the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer or (ii) if the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum, the Issuer shall, if required by the Dealer, purchase from the Dealer any such Notes held in inventory at a price equal to the face amount thereof discounted on a ratable basis based on the Issuer's market rate reflecting the remaining period until maturity in relation to the original term, provided that no commissions or fees will be paid to such Dealer in connection with any such repurchase pursuant to this Section 4.3(b)(ii).
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Dealer, on the other, (ii) in connection therewith and with the process leading to such transaction the Dealer is acting solely as a principal and not the agent or fiduciary of the Issuer, (iii) the Dealer has not assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Issuer with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether the Dealer has advised or is currently advising the Issuer on other matters) or any other obligation to the Issuer except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement and (iv) the Issuer has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate. The Issuer agrees that it will not claim that the Dealer has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to the Issuer, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Issuer and the Dealer, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
Addendum
The following additional clauses shall apply to the Agreement and be deemed a part thereof.
The addresses of the respective parties for purposes of notices under Section 7.1 are as follows:
 
 
Exhibit A
Form of Legend for Private Placement Memorandum and Notes
THE NOTES HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT"), OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAW, AND OFFERS AND SALES THEREOF MAY BE MADE ONLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER WILL BE DEEMED TO REPRESENT THAT (I) IT HAS BEEN AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVESTIGATE MATTERS RELATING TO THE ISSUER AND THE NOTES, (II) IT IS NOT ACQUIRING SUCH NOTE WITH A VIEW TO ANY DISTRIBUTION THEREOF AND (III) IT IS EITHER (A)(1) AN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR THAT IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) UNDER THE ACT AND WHICH, IN THE CASE OF AN INDIVIDUAL, (i) POSSESSES SUCH KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IN FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS MATTERS THAT HE OR SHE IS CAPABLE OF EVALUATING AND BEARING THE ECONOMIC RISK OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES AND (ii) HAS NOT LESS THAN $5 MILLION IN INVESTMENTS (AN "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" OR "SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR", RESPECTIVELY) AND (2)(i) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, (ii) A BANK (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(2) OF THE ACT) OR A SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OR OTHER INSTITUTION (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(5)(A) OF THE ACT) ACTING IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR FIDUCIARY CAPACITY OR (iii) A FIDUCIARY OR AGENT (OTHER THAN A U.S. BANK OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR; OR (B) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER ("QIB") WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS, EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS A QIB; AND THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS AWARE THAT THE SELLER MAY RELY UPON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER THEREOF SHALL ALSO BE DEEMED TO AGREE THAT ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER THEREOF WILL BE MADE ONLY (A) IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT, EITHER (1) TO THE ISSUER OR TO A PLACEMENT AGENT DESIGNATED BY THE ISSUER AS A PLACEMENT AGENT FOR THE NOTES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PLACEMENT AGENTS"), NONE OF WHICH SHALL HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO ACQUIRE SUCH NOTE, (2) THROUGH A PLACEMENT AGENT TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR A QIB, OR (3) TO A QIB IN A TRANSACTION THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND (B) IN MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF $250,000.
 
Exhibit B
Further Provisions Relating to Indemnification
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Statement of Terms for Interest  Bearing Commercial Paper Notes of Danaher Corporation
THE PROVISIONS SET FORTH BELOW ARE QUALIFIED TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE BY THE TRANSACTION SPECIFIC [PRICING] [PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM] SUPPLEMENT (THE "SUPPLEMENT") (IF ANY) SENT TO EACH PURCHASER AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSACTION.
 
(b) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, executive order or regulation to be closed in New York City and, with respect to LIBOR Notes (as defined below) is also a London Business Day. "London Business Day" means, a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
 
(b) The Supplement sent to each holder of such Note will describe the following terms: (i) whether such Note is a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note and whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note (as defined below); (ii) the date on which such Note will be issued (the "Issue Date"); (iii) the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below); (iv) if such Note is a Fixed Rate Note, the rate per annum at which such Note will bear interest, if any, and the Interest Payment Dates; (v) if such Note is a Floating Rate Note, the Base Rate, the Index Maturity, the Interest Reset Dates, the Interest Payment Dates and the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, if any (all as defined below), and any other terms relating to the particular method of calculating the interest rate for such Note; and (vi) any other terms applicable specifically to such Note. "Original Issue Discount Note" means a Note which has a stated redemption price at the Stated Maturity Date that exceeds its Issue Price by more than a specified de minimis amount and which the Supplement indicates will be an "Original Issue Discount Note".
(c) Each Fixed Rate Note will bear interest from its Issue Date at the rate per annum specified in the Supplement until the principal amount thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on each Fixed Rate Note will be payable on the dates specified in the Supplement (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Fixed Rate Note) and on the Maturity Date (as defined below). Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date of a Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest will be payable on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue in respect of the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day.
(d) The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to an interest rate basis (a "Base Rate") plus or minus a number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) (the "Spread"), if any, and/or multiplied by a certain percentage (the "Spread Multiplier"), if any, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Supplement will designate which of the following Base Rates is applicable to the related Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate (a "CD Rate Note"), (b) the Commercial Paper Rate (a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"), (c) the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Note"), (d) LIBOR (a "LIBOR Note"), (e) the Prime Rate (a "Prime Rate Note"), (f) the Treasury Rate (a "Treasury Rate Note") or (g) such other Base Rate as may be specified in such Supplement.
The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually (the "Interest Reset Period"). The date or dates on which interest will be reset (each an "Interest Reset Date") will be, unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, in the case of Floating Rate Notes which reset daily, each Business Day, in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) that reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Treasury Rate Notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset semiannually, the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on each Floating Rate Note will be payable monthly, quarterly or semiannually (the "Interest Payment Period") and on the Maturity Date. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, and except as provided below, the date or dates on which interest will be payable (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Floating Rate Note) will be, in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a monthly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a quarterly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a semiannual Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. In addition, the Maturity Date will also be an Interest Payment Date.
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note (other than an Interest Payment Date occurring on the Maturity Date) would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity Date of a Floating Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such maturity.
Interest payments on each Interest Payment Date for Floating Rate Notes will include accrued interest from and including the Issue Date or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been
 
paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date. On the Maturity Date, the interest payable on a Floating Rate Note will include interest accrued to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a Floating Rate Note by an accrued interest factor. This accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor (expressed as a decimal) for each such day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases where the Base Rate is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR or Prime Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, in the case where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate. The interest rate in effect on each day will be (i) if such day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date (as defined below) pertaining to such Interest Reset Date, or (ii) if such day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the next preceding Interest Reset Date, subject in either case to any adjustment by a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier.
The "Interest Determination Date" where the Base Rate is the CD Rate or the Commercial Paper Rate will be the second Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate will be the Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is LIBOR will be the second London Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls when Treasury Bills are normally auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is held on the following Tuesday or the preceding Friday. If an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
The "Index Maturity" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation from which the applicable Base Rate is calculated.
The "Calculation Date," where applicable, shall be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day following the applicable Interest Determination Date or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date.
All times referred to herein reflect New York City time, unless otherwise specified.
The Issuer shall specify in writing to the Issuing and Paying Agent which party will be the calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") with respect to the Floating Rate Notes. The Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date with respect to such Floating Rate Note to the Issuing and Paying Agent as soon as the interest rate with respect to such Floating Rate Note has been determined and as soon as practicable after any change in such interest rate.
All percentages resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five-one millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655). All dollar amounts used in or resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded, in the case of U.S. dollars, to the nearest cent or, in the case of a foreign currency, to the nearest unit (with one-half cent or unit being rounded upwards).
 
CD Rate Notes
"CD Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB") in "Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates" or any successor publication of the FRB ("H.15(519)") under the heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date set forth in the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world wide website of the FRB at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/Update, or any successor site or publication or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate ("H.15 Daily Update") under the caption "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading nonbank dealers
1
in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks of the highest credit standing in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity in the denomination of $5,000,000.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
"Commercial Paper Rate" means the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on any Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper of the Index Maturity as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If by 3:00 p.m. on such Calculation Date such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper of the Index Maturity placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
 
 
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Money Market Yield" will be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
"Federal Funds Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for federal funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)" and displayed on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 120 (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service) ("Telerate Page 120").
If the above rate does not appear on Telerate Page 120 or is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Federal Funds/(Effective)".
If such rate is not published as described above by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Federal Funds Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight U.S. dollar federal funds arranged by each of three leading brokers of Federal Funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date.
If the brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Federal Funds Rate will remain the Federal Funds Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
LIBOR Notes
The London Interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having the Index Maturity that appears on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date.
If no rate appears, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in such market selected by the Calculation Agent for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in principal amount equal to an amount that in the Calculation Agent's judgment is representative for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time (a "Representative Amount"). The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such
 
quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such interest period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., in New York City, on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount; provided, however, that if fewer than three banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are providing such quotations, the then existing LIBOR rate will remain in effect for such Interest Payment Period.
"Designated LIBOR Page" means the display designated as page "3750" on Moneyline Telerate (or such other page as may replace the 3750 page on that service or such other service or services as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purposes of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).
Prime Rate Notes
"Prime Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update opposite the caption "Bank Prime Loan".
If the rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page (as defined below) as such bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., on that Interest Determination Date.
If fewer than four such rates referred to above are so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360 as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
If the banks selected are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page" means the display designated as page "US PRIME1" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the US PRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
 
Treasury Rate Notes
"Treasury Rate" means:
(1) the rate from the auction held on the Interest Determination Date (the "Auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("Treasury Bills") having the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement under the caption "INVESTMENT RATE" on the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 56 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 56") or page 57 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 57"), or
(2) if the rate referred to in clause (1) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High", or
(3) if the rate referred to in clause (2) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills as announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or
(4) if the rate referred to in clause (3) is not so announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(5) if the rate referred to in clause (4) not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(6) if the rate referred to in clause (5) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m. on that Interest Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement, or
(7) if the dealers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (6), the Treasury Rate in effect on the particular Interest Determination Date.
"Bond Equivalent Yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
("Agreement") dated as of May 5, 2006 ("Effective Date") is entered into by and between Danaher Corporation (the "Issuer") with offices at 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., 12th Floor, Washington, D.C. 20006 and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Bank") with offices at 60 Wall St, 27
THIS AGREEMENT
th
Floor, New York, NY 10005.
Section 1.
Appointment
The Issuer requests and authorizes the Bank to act as agent for the Issuer in connection with the issuance and payment of unsecured (a) book-entry obligations (each an "Obligation" and collectively the "Obligations") as evidenced by Master Note Certificate(s) (the "Note Certificate(s) ") and (b) bearer short term promissory notes of the Issuer (each a "Note" and collectively the "Notes"), in the case of (a), in the form appended hereto in Exhibit A-1 and in the case of (b), in the form to be appended hereto as Exhibit A-2 at such time as bearer short term promissory notes of the Issuer are to be issued. The Bank agrees to act as such agent for the Issuer subject to the provisions of this Agreement commencing on the Effective Date shown above.
Insofar as the context requires, all references herein to an Issuer's "Obligation" shall be deemed to include the Issuer's Note, and all references herein to an Issuer's "Obligations" or "Book-entry Obligations" shall be deemed to include the Issuer's Notes.
Section 2.
Certificate Agreement
The Issuer acknowledges that the Bank has previously entered into a commercial paper certificate agreement (as amended or otherwise modified and currently in effect, the "Certificate Agreement") which copy is appended hereto as Exhibit E, with the Depository Trust Company (DTC) and the Issuer also acknowledges that the continuation in effect of the Certificate Agreement is a necessary prerequisite to the Bank's providing services related to issuance of the Obligations. The Issuer understands and agrees that the Certificate Agreement shall supplement the provisions of this Agreement and that the Issuer and the provisions of this Agreement are subject to the provisions of the Certificate Agreement.
Page 2
Section 3.
Letter of Representations; Resolutions; Authorized Officers
The Issuer will, prior to the Effective Date, deliver to the Bank an executed Letter of Representations (the "Representations"), a copy of which is appended hereto as Exhibit F. Further, the Issuer understands and agrees that such Representations when executed by the Issuer, the Bank and DTC shall supplement the provisions of this Agreement and that the Issuer, the Bank, and DTC shall be bound by the provisions of the Representations. The Bank and the Issuer agree to comply with the relevant portions of DTC's Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Manual, and the DTC Same Day Settlement System Rules (collectively the "DTC Rules").
The Issuer has delivered to the Bank (a) a certified copy of the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Issuer concerning the issuance of Obligations by the Issuer (the "Resolutions"), which copy is appended hereto as Exhibit B, and (b) a certified original of the Issuer's certificate of incumbency (the "Certificate of Incumbency"), containing the name, title, and true signature of those officers of the Issuer authorized by the Resolutions to take action with respect to the Obligations (the "Authorized Officers"), which certificate is appended hereto as Exhibit C. The Issuer agrees to provide the Bank with revised certified Resolutions and/or Certificates of Incumbency when and as required by changes in authorization of personnel.
Section 4.
Authorized Persons
The Issuer authorizes the Bank to accept and to execute Instructions, as defined in and given pursuant to Section 6 hereof by any one of the employees and/or Agents (defined as sales agents or dealers authorized by a separate agreement between the Issuer and its sales agents or dealers) of the Issuer who are designated in a writing that is signed by the requisite number of Authorized Officers. Such designated employees or Agents shall be hereinafter collectively referred to as "Authorized Persons". The initial written designation of Authorized Person(s) is appended hereto as Exhibit D. The Issuer agrees to provide the Bank with revised written designations in the form of Exhibit D when and as required by changes in authorization or personnel.
Section 5.
Note Certificates
 
The Issuer will, prior to the Effective Date, deliver to the Bank a Note Certificate evidencing Obligations issued, such Note Certificate bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of the requisite number of Authorized Officers and specifying the date of issuance, the full legal name of the Issuer, the name of the state in which the Issuer is incorporated, and the name of the Bank, acting as paying agent for the Issuer, in each case the Note Certificate being registered in the name of Cede & Co., a nominee of DTC.
Page 3
 
For use as described in Section 7 hereof, the Issuer will, at its election, (a) deliver to the Bank a supply of the Issuer's sequentially numbered, blank Notes bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of the requisite number of Authorized Officers and having spaces to show the face or principal amount, payee, date of issue, maturity date and amount of interest (if an interest bearing Note), and/or (b) authorize the Bank to use the Bank's commercial paper universal note stock, which has spaces to show the face or principal amount, payee, date of issue, maturity date, amount of interest (if an interest bearing Note) and signature(s) of the Authorized Officers. If the Issuer elects (b), or if the Notes described in (a) do not bear such signature(s) when delivered to the Bank, then the Issuer will, at its election, deliver to the Bank for each signature required to be placed on the Notes either an electronic image of the requisite signature or a stamp bearing the facsimile signature of an Authorized Officer.
 
Any Obligation (as evidenced by the Note Certificate or Note bearing the manual or authorized facsimile signature of an Authorized Officer) shall, upon the Bank's issuance of such Obligation on behalf of the Issuer, bind the Issuer notwithstanding that such Authorized Officer shall have died or shall have otherwise ceased to hold office on the date such Obligation is issued by the Bank. Furthermore, the Issuer agrees that the Bank shall have no duty or responsibility to determine the genuineness of the facsimile and/or manual signatures appearing on the Note Certificate(s), Notes or stamps but the foregoing shall not excuse the Bank from examining, and the Bank shall examine, its signature cards to determine that signers are authorized and their signatures do not appear on their face to be incorrect or incomplete.
Section 6.
Instructions
The term "Instructions" shall mean a communication, purporting to be from an Authorized Officer or Authorized Person, in the form of either (a) a written notice including those transmitted through facsimile transmittal equipment; (b) a telephone call; and/or (c) a transmission through an instruction and reporting communication service ("Noteline Direct") offered by the Bank pursuant to Section 10 hereof, in each case received by the Bank at the address specified in Section 15 prior to 1:00 p.m. New York time on the day on which the Instructions are to be operative, which shall be a day the Bank is open for business.
Page 4
If the Bank, at its option, acts upon Instructions transmitted after 1:00 p.m. New York time on the day on which the Instructions are to be operative, the Issuer understands and agrees that (a) such Instructions shall be acted upon, on a best efforts basis, by the Bank pursuant to the custom and practice of the commercial paper market, and (b) the Bank makes no representations or warranties that the issuance and delivery of any Note or Obligation pursuant to Section 7 hereof shall be completed prior to the close of business on the issue date specified in the Instructions.
Any Instructions given by telephone shall be confirmed to the Bank in a writing purporting to be from an Authorized Officer or Authorized Person prior to 1:00 p.m. New York time on the day on which such Instructions are to be operative. In the absence of the Bank's timely receipt of such written confirmation or in the event the Bank acts upon Instructions received after 1:00 p.m. New York time on the day on which the Instructions are to be operative, the Issuer understands and agrees that the Instructions given by telephone or received after the aforementioned 1:00 p.m. New York time, as understood by the Bank, shall be the true and controlling Instructions for all purposes of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6, the Issuer acknowledges that the Bank may act upon the Instructions without any duty to make any inquiry regarding the genuineness of such Instructions.
Section 7.
Issuance
 
The Bank's sole duties in connection with the issuance of the Obligations when the Issuer delivers the Note Certificate(s) to the Bank in the form described in Section 5(X) herein, shall be as follows:
 
 
 
Page 5
Obligation), by way of data entry or data transfer to the DTC Same Day Funds Settlement System ("SDFS"), and to receive from SDFS a confirmation receipt that such delivery was effected; and
 
 
The Bank's sole duties in connection with the issuance of the Notes if the Issuer delivers a supply of the Issuer's blank Notes to the Bank or uses the Bank's commercial paper universal note stock pursuant to Section 5(Y) hereof shall be as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank's additional duties in connection with the issuance of the Notes when the Issuer delivers facsimile signature stamps to the Bank pursuant to Section 5(Y) hereof shall be as follows:
 
Page 6
 
 
The Issuer acknowledges that pursuant to the custom and practice of the commercial paper market, the delivery or mailing of an Obligation against payment of the net amount of the Obligation (i.e., the principal amount of the Obligation less the discount specified in the Instructions or the principal amount of an interest bearing Obligation) and the actual receipt of payment thereof are not simultaneous transactions.
Therefore, whenever the Instructions direct the Bank to deliver any Obligation against payment, the Bank is authorized to and will deliver such Obligation to the party specified in the Instructions and hold as receipt a confirmation copy generated by SDFS (in the case of Book Entry transactions), or (a) the receipt of the party specified in the Instructions or (b) the United States Post Office's registered mail (both (a) and (b) in the case of physical Notes) in lieu of immediate payment by the purchaser of the Obligation (the "Purchaser"). The Issuer also acknowledges that pursuant to the custom and practice of the commercial paper market, the Purchaser is obligated to settle in immediately available funds at or before the close of business on the Issue Date specified on the Obligation. The Issuer understands and agrees that whenever the Bank delivers an Obligation against receipt of funds as set forth above, the Issuer and not the Bank shall bear the risk of the Purchaser's failure to remit the net amount of the Obligation purchased, and of the loss or theft of Notes after such Notes are placed in the United States mail.
The Bank shall have no duty or responsibility to make any transfer of the proceeds of the sale of the Issuer's Obligations, or to advance any monies or effect any credit with respect to such proceeds or transfers unless and until the Bank has actually received the proceeds of the sale of the Obligations. Upon such receipt, the Bank shall immediately credit the Issuer's account with the Bank (Account No. 00447400) with such proceeds unless at the time of such crediting, the Issuer has advised the Bank, in writing, that the receipt of such proceeds is subject to reversal or cancellation. If the Bank, at its sole option, effects any such transfer that results in an overdraft in any account of the Issuer, the amount of such overdraft shall be considered as a loan to the Issuer, and the Issuer agrees to pay the Bank on demand the amount of such loan together with interest thereon at the rate customarily charged by the Bank on similar loans.
Page 7
Section 8.
Payment
Bank's sole duties in connection with payment of the Obligations shall be, upon presentment at maturity of an issued Obligation, to pay the principal amount of a discounted Obligation or principal plus interest of an interest-at-maturity Obligation to the party appearing to be entitled thereto, and to debit the Issuer's account with the Bank (Account No. 00447400) for such amount under advice to the Issuer at the address specified in Section 15 hereof.
The Bank shall have no obligation to pay, at maturity, the amount referred to in this Section 8 unless sufficient funds have been received by the Bank in collected funds. If the Bank, at its sole option, makes any such payment that results in an overdraft in any account of the Issuer, the amount of such overdraft shall be considered a loan to the Issuer, and the Issuer agrees to pay the Bank on demand the amount of such loan together with interest thereon at the rate customarily charged by the Bank on similar loans.
Section 9.
United States Dollars
The Issuer agrees that the Obligations issued or presented hereunder shall be denominated in United States dollars. The Issuer further agrees that payment of any and all amounts due pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall be made solely in United States dollars.
Section 10.
Noteline Direct
The Issuer is granted a personal, non-transferable and non-exclusive right to use the instruction and reporting communication service Noteline Direct to transmit through the Noteline Direct system Instructions made pursuant to Section 6 hereof. The Issuer may, by separate agreement between the Issuer and one or more of its Agents, authorize the Agent (in each case other than the Bank) to directly access Noteline Direct for the purposes of transmitting Instructions to the Bank or obtaining reports with respect to the Obligations.
The Issuer acknowledges that (a) some or all of the services utilized in connection with Noteline Direct are furnished by Financial Sciences Corporation ("FSC"), (b) Noteline Direct is provided to the Issuer "AS IS" without warranties or representations of any kind whatsoever by FSC or the Bank, and (c) Noteline Direct is proprietary and confidential property disclosed to the Issuer in confidence and only on the terms and conditions and for purposes set forth in this Agreement.
By this Agreement, the Issuer acquires no title, ownership or sublicensing rights whatsoever in Noteline Direct or in any trade secret, trademark, copyright or patent of the Bank or FSC now or to become applicable to Noteline Direct. The Issuer may not transfer, sublicense, assign, rent, lease, convey, modify, translate, convert to a programming language, decompile, disassemble, recirculate, republish or redistribute Noteline Direct for any purpose without the prior written consent of the Bank and, where necessary FSC.
Page 8
In the event (a) any action is taken or threatened which may result in a disclosure or transfer of Noteline Direct or any part thereof, other than as authorized by this Agreement, or (b) the use of any trademark, trade name, service mark, service name, copyright or patent of the Bank or FSC by the Issuer amounts to unfair competition, or otherwise constitutes a possible violation of any kind, then the Bank and/or FSC shall have the right to take any and all action deemed necessary to protect their rights in Noteline Direct, and to avoid the substantial and irreparable damage which would result from such disclosure, transfer or use, including the immediate termination of the Issuer's right to use Noteline Direct.
To permit the use of Noteline Direct to issue Instructions and/or obtain reports with respect to the Obligations, the Bank will supply the Issuer with an identification number and initial passwords. From time to time thereafter, the Issuer may change its passwords directly through Noteline Direct. The Issuer will keep all information relating to its identification number and passwords strictly confidential and will be responsible for the maintenance of adequate security over its customer identification number and passwords. For security purposes, the Issuer should change its passwords frequently (at least once a year).
Instructions transmitted over Noteline Direct and received by the Bank pursuant to Section 6 hereof accompanied by the Issuer's identification number and the passwords, shall be deemed conclusive evidence that such Instructions are correct and complete and that the issuance or redemption of the Obligation(s) directed thereby has been duly authorized by the Issuer.
Section 11.
Representations and Warranties of the Issuer
The Issuer represents and warrants as follows:
 
 
Page 9
is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Issuer is subject, or (ii) result in any violation of (x) the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Issuer or (y) to the best knowledge of the Issuer, any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or government agency or body having jurisdiction over the Issuer or any of its properties, in any manner which, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii) (y), would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Issuer and its subsidiaries taken as a whole;
 
 
Section 12.
Compensation
The Issuer agrees to pay such compensation for the Bank's issuing and paying agent services pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with the Bank's schedule of fees, as amended from time to time, that has been accepted and agreed to by the Issuer.
Section 13.
Indemnification
The Issuer agrees that the Bank shall not be liable for any losses, damages, liabilities or costs suffered or incurred by the Issuer as a result of (a) the Bank's having executed Instructions, (b) the Bank's improperly executing or failing to execute any Instructions because of unclear Instructions, failure of communications media or any other circumstances beyond the Bank's control, (c) the actions or inactions of DTC, any Agent or any broker, dealer, consignee or agent not selected by the Bank, or (d) any other acts or omissions of the Bank (or of any of its agents or correspondents) relating to this Agreement or the transactions or activities contemplated hereby except to the extent, if any, that such other acts or omissions constitute gross negligence, willful misconduct or violation of law by the Bank. The Issuer, in the absence of gross negligence, willful
Page 10
misconduct or violation of law by the Bank, agrees to indemnify the Bank and hold it harmless from and against (a) any and all actions, claims (groundless or otherwise), suits, losses, fines and penalties arising out of the Bank's having executed any Instructions or otherwise having performed any of its obligations hereunder and (b) any damages, costs, expenses (including reasonable legal fees and disbursements), losses or liabilities relating to any such actions, claims, suits, losses fines or penalties or to any breach of this Agreement by the Issuer. In no event shall the Bank be liable for special, indirect or consequential damages. This Section 13, Indemnification, shall survive any termination of this Agreement and the issuance and payment of any Note(s).
14.
Termination
Either the Bank or the Issuer may terminate this Agreement at any time by not less than ten (10) days' prior written notice to the other. No such termination shall affect the rights and obligations of the Issuer and the Bank which have accrued under this Agreement prior to termination.
15.
Addresses
Instructions hereunder shall be (a) mailed, (b) telephoned, (c) transmitted by facsimile device, and/or (d) transmitted via Noteline Direct to the Bank at the address, telephone number, and/or facsimile number specified below and shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt by the Bank's Commercial Paper Issuance Operations at the address, telephone number, and/or facsimile number specified below.
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
Trust & Securities Services
60 Wall St  27
th
Floor
New York, NY 10005
Attention: Money Market Instruments Operations
Telephone: (212) 250-7539 / 2972
Facsimile: (212) 797-8616
All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder (excluding Instructions) shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (a) upon delivery by hand (against receipt), or (b) by United States Post Office registered mail (against receipt) or by regular mail (upon receipt) to the party and at the address set forth below or at such other address as either party may designate by written notice:
 
Page 11
 
16.
Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
Page 12
 
 
Page 13
Agreed to and Accepted by:
 
List of Exhibits
Exhibit A DTC Master Note & Universal Note
Exhibit B Board Resolutions & Secretary's Certificate
Exhibit C Authorized Officers & Certificate of Incumbency
Exhibit D Authorized Persons
Exhibit E DTC Certificate Agreement
Exhibit F DTC Letter of Representations

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
is made on 8 May 2006
THIS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
In this Agreement:
"" means the issuing and paying agency agreement, dated the date hereof, between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Issuing and Paying Agent, providing for the issue of and payment on the Notes, as such agreement may be amended or supplemented from time to time;
Agency Agreement
"" means this Agreement (as amended or supplemented from time to time), any agreement reached pursuant to Clause 2.1, the Deed of Covenant, the Guarantee and the Agency Agreement;
Agreements
"" means the institution specified as a Dealer in the Programme Summary together with any additional institution or institutions appointed pursuant to Clause 6.2 but excluding any institution or institutions whose appointment has been terminated pursuant to Clause 6.1;
Dealer
"" means the deed of covenant, dated the date hereof, executed by the Issuer in respect of Global Notes issued pursuant to the Agency Agreement, as such deed may be amended or supplemented from time to time;
Deed of Covenant
"" means a security printed Note in definitive form;
Definitive Note
"" means, at any particular date, (a) the Information Memorandum, (b) the most recently published audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor and, if financial statements have been published by the Issuer, the most recently published audited unconsolidated financial statements of the Issuer and any subsequent quarterly unaudited financial statements of the Issuer and the Guarantor (in the case of the Guarantor each having been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "")), and (c) any other document delivered by the Issuer or the Guarantor to the Dealer which the Issuer or the Guarantor (as the case may be) has expressly authorised to be distributed in connection with transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Disclosure Documents
SEC
 
"" and "" denote the lawful currency of the United States of America; and "" means a Note denominated in Dollars;
Dollars
U.S.$
Dollar Note
"" means, on any day:
Dollar Equivalent
 
 
"", "", "" or "" means the lawful currency of member states of the European Union that adopt the single currency introduced in accordance with the Treaty; and "" means a Note denominated in Euro;
Euro
euro
EUR
Euro Note
"" means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;
FSMA
"" means a Note in global form, representing an issue of commercial paper notes of a like maturity which may be issued by the Issuer from time to time pursuant to the Agency Agreement;
Global Note
"" means the guarantee dated on or about the date of this Agreement and executed as a deed by the Guarantor in respect of the obligations of the Issuer under the Notes and the Deed of Covenant;
Guarantee
"" means a Note, the redemption or coupon amount of which is not fixed at the time of issue, but which is to be calculated in accordance with such formula or other arrangement as is agreed between the Issuer and the Dealer at the time of reaching agreement under Clause 2.1;
Index Linked Note
"" means the most recent information memorandum, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, containing information about the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Programme, the text of which has been prepared by or on behalf of the Issuer and the Guarantor for use by the Dealer in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Information Memorandum
"" means Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and any successor Issuing and Paying Agent appointed in accordance with the Agency Agreement;
Issuing and Paying Agent
"" means a commercial paper note of the Issuer purchased or to be purchased by a Dealer under this Agreement, in bearer global or definitive form, substantially in the relevant form scheduled to the Agency Agreement or such other form(s) as may be agreed from time to time between the Issuer and the Issuing and Paying Agent and, unless the context otherwise requires, includes the commercial paper notes represented by the Global Notes;
Note
 
"" means the Euro-commercial paper programme established by this Agreement;
Programme
"" means the summary of the particulars of the Programme as set out in Schedule 3, as such summary may be amended or superseded from time to time;
Programme Summary
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended;
Securities Act
"" means, with respect to any person, (i) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of capital stock or other equity interest entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such person or one or more of the other subsidiaries of that person (or a combination thereof) and (ii) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or managing general partner of which is such person or a subsidiary or such person or (b) the only general partners of which are such person or of one or more subsidiaries of such person (or any combination thereof);
Subsidiary
"" means the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended; and
Treaty
"" means the Guarantor's U.S. commercial paper program established on 5 May 2006 by the Guarantor, as issuer and Goldman, Sachs & Co., as U.S. dealer, concerning notes to be issued pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement between the Guarantor and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, dated 5 May 2006.
USCP Program
 
Terms not expressly defined herein shall have the meanings set out in the Programme Summary.
 
Any reference in this Agreement to any legislation (whether primary legislation or regulations or other subsidiary legislation made pursuant to primary legislation) shall be construed as a reference to such legislation as the same may have been, or may from time to time be, amended or re-enacted.
 
Any reference in this Agreement to a Clause, sub-clause or a Schedule is, unless otherwise stated, to a clause or sub-clause hereof or a schedule hereto.
 
Headings and sub-headings are for ease of reference only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
 
 
Subject to the terms hereof, the Issuer may issue Notes to the Dealer from time to time at such prices and upon such terms as the Issuer and the Dealer may agree, provided
 
that the Issuer has, and shall have, no obligation to issue Notes to the Dealer, except as agreed, and the Dealer has, and shall have, no obligation to subscribe Notes from the Issuer, except as agreed. The Issuer acknowledges that the Dealer may resell Notes subscribed by the Dealer. The tenor of each Note shall not be less than the Minimum Term nor greater than the Maximum Term specified in the Programme Summary, calculated from (and including) the date of issue of such Note to (but excluding) the maturity date thereof. Definitive Notes (if any) shall be issued in the Denomination(s) specified in the Programme Summary. Each issue of Notes having the same issue date, maturity date, currency or denomination, yield and redemption basis will be represented by a Global Note or by Definitive Notes having the aggregate nominal amount of such issue as may be agreed between the Issuer and the Dealer.
 
If the Issuer and the Dealer shall agree on the terms of the subscription of any Note by the Dealer (including agreement with respect to the issue date, maturity date, currency, denomination, yield, redemption basis, aggregate nominal amount and purchase price), then:
 
 
 
 
 
or, in each case, by such other form of transfer as may be agreed between the Dealer and the Issuer; and
 
 
If for any reason (including, without limitation, the failure of the relevant trade) a Note agreed to be purchased pursuant to Clause 2.1 is not to be issued, each of the Issuer and the Dealer shall immediately notify the Issuing and Paying Agent thereof.
 
The parties acknowledge that Notes issued under the Programme may be denominated in Dollars or, subject as provided below, in any other currency. Any agreement reached pursuant to Clause 2.1 to sell and purchase a Note denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be conditional upon:
 
 
 
 
The Issuer shall ensure that the outstanding nominal amount of all Notes issued under the Programme, when taken together with the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time to time under the USCP Program, does not exceed the Maximum Amount. For the purposes of calculating the Maximum Amount, the nominal amount of any outstanding Note or Notes denominated in any currency other than Dollars shall be taken as the Dollar Equivalent of such nominal amount as at the date of the agreement for the issue of the Note or Notes then to be issued provided that in calculating the nominal amount of Notes outstanding on the date of issue of such Note or Notes there shall be disregarded Notes which mature on that date. The Issuer may increase the Maximum Amount by giving at least ten days' notice by letter, substantially in the form set out in Schedule 4, to the Dealer, the Issuing and Paying Agent and the Paying Agents. Such increase will not take effect until the Dealer has received from the Issuer the documents listed in such letter (if required by the Dealer), in each case in form and substance acceptable to the Dealer.
 
If Index Linked Notes are to be issued, the Issuer will appoint either the Dealer or the Issuing and Paying Agent (subject to the consent of the Dealer or the Issuing and Paying Agent, as the case may be, thereto) or some other person (subject to the consent of the Dealer and the Paying Agent to such person's appointment) to be the calculation agent in respect of such Index Linked Notes and the following provisions shall apply:
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Issuer (in respect of itself) and the Guarantor (in respect of itself and the Issuer) represents and warrants to the Dealer at the date of this Agreement, each date upon which the Maximum Amount is increased, each date upon which an agreement for the issue and subscription of Notes is made by the Issuer and each date upon which Notes are, or are to be, issued by the Issuer (by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing):
 
 
 
 
has been duly authorised by all necessary action and the same constitute, or, in the case of Notes, will, when issued in accordance with the Agency
 
Agreement, constitute, valid and binding obligations of each of the Issuer and the Guarantor enforceable against them in accordance with their respective terms (subject, as to enforceability, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganisation and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity);
 
 
 
 
 
will not infringe any of the provisions of the Issuer's or the Guarantor's certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated by-laws and will not contravene any law, regulation, order or judgement to which the Issuer or the Guarantor or any of its assets is subject nor result in the breach of any term of, or cause a default under, any instrument to which the Issuer or the Guarantor is a party or by which it or any of its assets may be bound, in each case, in any material respect, in the context of the Programme and of the Notes issued thereunder;
 
 
 
 
 
 
which in any case could reasonably be expected to be material in the context of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, prior to the time a Note is issued and delivered to or for the account of the Dealer, an event occurs which would render any of the representations and warranties set out in Clause 3.1 immediately, or with the lapse of time, untrue or incorrect, the Issuer will inform the Dealer in writing as soon as practicable of the occurrence of such event. In either case, the Dealer shall inform the Issuer in writing without any undue delay whether it wishes to continue or discontinue the issuance and delivery of the respective Notes.
 
 
The Issuer and the Guarantor covenant and agree that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substantial rights and defences, and (ii) the omission to notify the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, will not relieve it from liability which it may have to the Dealer otherwise than on account of Clause 4.1.2.
In the event that any such claim is made against the Dealer and it notifies the Issuer and/or the Guarantor of the existence thereof, the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, will be entitled to participate therein, and to the extent that it may elect by written notice delivered to the Dealer, to assume the defence thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Dealer; provided that if the defendants in any such claim include both the Dealer and the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, and the Dealer shall have concluded that there may be legal defences available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, the Issuer or the Guarantor shall not have the right to direct the defence of such claim on behalf of the Dealer, and the Dealer shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defences on behalf of the Dealer.
Upon receipt of notice from the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, to the Dealer of the Issuer's or the Guarantor's election so to assume the defence of such claim and approval by the Dealer of counsel, neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor will be liable to the Dealer for expenses incurred thereafter by the Dealer in connection with the defence thereof (other than reasonable costs of investigation) unless (i) the Dealer shall have employed separate counsel in connection with the assertion of legal defences in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (in addition to any local counsel in the jurisdiction in which any claim is brought), approved by the Dealer, representing the Dealer who is party to such claim), (ii) the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Dealer to represent the Dealer within a reasonable time after notice of existence of the claim, or (iii) the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, has authorised in writing the employment of counsel for the Dealer.
The Issuer and the Guarantor agree that without the Dealer's prior written consent, it will not settle compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any claim in respect of which indemnification may be sought under Clause 4.1.2 of this Agreement (whether or not the Dealer is an actual or potential party to such claim), unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of the Dealer from all liability arising out of such claim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer shall take such steps (in conjunction with the Dealer, where appropriate) to ensure that any laws and regulations or requirements of any governmental agency, authority or institution which may from time to time be applicable to any Note shall be fully observed and complied with and in particular (but without limitation) that neither the Issuer, nor any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) nor any person acting on its or its affiliates behalf have engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Notes, and they have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S. Terms used in this sub-clause have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
The Dealer represents, covenants and agrees that it has complied with and will comply with the selling restrictions set out in Schedule 2. Subject to compliance with those restrictions, the Dealer is hereby authorised by the Issuer and the Guarantor to circulate the Disclosure Documents to purchasers or potential purchasers of the Notes.
 
The obligations of each Dealer contained in this Agreement are several.
 
The Dealer agrees that the Arranger has only acted in an administrative capacity to facilitate the establishment and/or maintenance of the Programme and has no responsibility to it for (a) the adequacy, accuracy, completeness or reasonableness of any representation, warranty, undertaking, agreement, statement or information in the Information Memorandum, this Agreement or any information provided in connection with the Programme or (b) the nature and suitability to it of all legal, tax and accounting matters and all documentation in connection with the Programme or any issue of Notes thereunder.
 
 
The Issuer and the Guarantor, as the case may be, agree to deliver to the Dealer, prior to the first issue of Notes, each of the documents set out in Schedule 1 in form, substance and number reasonably requested by the Dealer.
 
In relation to each issue of Notes, it shall be a condition precedent to the subscription thereof by the Dealer that (a) the representations and warranties in Clause 3.1 shall be true and correct on each date upon which an agreement for the sale of Notes is made hereunder and on the date on which such Notes are issued by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing and that (b) there is no other material breach of the Issuer's or Guarantor's obligations under any of the Agreements or the Notes.
 
In relation to an issue of Sterling Definitive Notes (and if so agreed between the Issuer and the Dealer), it shall be a condition precedent to the subscription thereof by any Dealer that the Issuer supplies to each Dealer, not less than five days prior to the first issue of such Notes to that Dealer confirmation from the Issuing and Paying Agent that the relevant agreed forms of Definitive Note have been security printed and the same delivered to the Issuing and Paying Agent.
 
 
The Issuer may terminate the appointment of the Dealer, and the Dealer may resign, on not less than ten days' written notice to the Dealer or the Issuer, as the case may be. The Issuer shall promptly inform the Issuing and Paying Agent and the Paying Agent of any such termination or resignation. The rights and obligations of each party hereto shall not terminate in respect of any rights or obligations accrued or incurred before the date on which such termination takes effect and the provisions of sub-clause 4.1.2 and 4.1.4 shall survive termination of this Agreement and delivery against payment for any of the Notes.
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the Issuer from appointing one or more additional Dealers upon the terms of this Agreement provided that any additional Dealer shall have first confirmed acceptance of its appointment upon such terms in writing to the Issuer in substantially the form of the letter set out in Schedule 5, whereupon it shall become a party to this Agreement vested with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations as if originally named as a Dealer hereunder. The Issuer shall promptly inform the Dealer, the Guarantor, the Issuing and Paying Agent and the Paying Agent of any such appointment. The Issuer hereby agrees to supply to such additional Dealer, upon such appointment, such legal opinions as are specified in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1, if requested, or reliance letters in respect thereof.
 
The Guarantor may, with the Dealer's prior consent, at any time and from time to time nominate one or more issuers (each, an "") under the Programme provided that such new Issuer so notifies the Dealer in writing and provides to the Dealer not less than three business days prior to the first issue of Notes by the new Issuer (a) copies of documents corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, 2, 3 (c) and (d), 4(a)(if relevant), 7, 8 and 9 of Schedule 1 in relation to the new Issuer, (b) the new Issuer's written agreement to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and the Agency Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Dealer, (c) a legal opinion from counsel acceptable to the Dealer and qualified in the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation of the new Issuer and (d) a supplemental Information Memorandum.
Issuer
 
The Guarantor shall procure that the new Issuer shall comply with and discharge its obligations under this Agreement, the Agency Agreement, the Deed of Covenant executed by it and the Notes issued by it.
 
 
All notices and other communications hereunder shall, save as otherwise provided in this Agreement, be made in writing and in English (by letter or fax) and shall be sent to the intended recipient at the address or fax number and marked for the attention of the person (if any) from time to time designated by that party to the other parties hereto for such purpose. The initial address and fax number so designated by each party are set out in the Programme Summary.
 
Any communication from any party to any other party under this Agreement shall be effective if sent by letter or fax upon receipt by the addressee, provided that any such notice or other communication which would otherwise take effect after 4.00 p.m. on any particular day shall not take effect until 10.00 a.m. on the immediately succeeding business day in the place of the addressee.
 
A person who is not a party to this Agreement has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Agreement.
 
 
This Agreement and all matters arising from or connected with it are governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
 
The courts of England have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute (a ""), arising from or connected with this Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Agreement) or the consequences of its nullity.
Dispute
 
The parties agree that the courts of England are the most appropriate and convenient courts to settle any Dispute and, accordingly, that they will not argue to the contrary.
 
Clause 10.2 is for the benefit of the Dealer only. As a result, nothing in this Clause 10 prevents the Dealer from taking proceedings relating to a Dispute ("") in any other courts with jurisdiction. To the extent allowed by law, the Dealer may take concurrent Proceedings in any number of jurisdictions.
Proceedings
 
The Issuer and the Guarantor agree that the documents which start any Proceedings and any other documents required to be served in relation to those Proceedings may be
 
served on it by being delivered to Veeder-Root Finance Company at Hydrex House, Garden Road, Richmond, Surrey TW9 4NR, United Kingdom, marked for the attention of the Manager, Corporate Finance and the Vice President or, if different, its registered office for the time being or at any address of the Issuer in Great Britain at which process may be served on it in accordance with Part XXIII of the Companies Act 1985. If such person is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process on behalf of the Issuer or the Guarantor (as the case may be), the Issuer or the Guarantor shall, on the written demand of the Dealer addressed and delivered to the Issuer or the Guarantor appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf and, failing such appointment within 15 days, the Dealer shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice addressed to the Issuer or the Guarantor and delivered to the Issuer or the Guarantor (as the case may be). Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Dealer to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. This clause applies to Proceedings in England and to Proceedings elsewhere.
 
This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts (including facsimile copies), all of which when taken together shall constitute a single agreement.
the hands of the duly authorised representatives of the parties hereto the day and year first before written.
AS WITNESS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By its purchase and acceptance of Notes issued under this Agreement, the Dealer represents, warrants and agrees that it will observe all applicable laws and regulations in any jurisdiction in which it may offer, sell, or deliver Notes; and that it will not directly or indirectly offer, sell, resell, reoffer or deliver Notes or distribute any Disclosure Document, circular, advertisement or other offering material in any country or jurisdiction except under circumstances that will result, to the best of its knowledge and belief, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
No action has been or will be taken in any jurisdiction by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Arranger or the Dealer that would permit a public offering of Notes, or possession or distribution of the Information Memorandum or any other offering material, in any county or jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required.
 
 
The Notes and the Guarantee have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons. The Dealer represents and agrees that it has offered and sold, and will offer and sell, Notes only outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S under the Securities Act. Accordingly, the Dealer represents and agrees that neither it, its affiliates nor any persons acting on its or their behalf have engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Notes, and that it and they have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S. The Dealer also agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sale of Notes, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Notes from it a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act."
Securities Act
Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
 
 
 
 
Terms used in this paragraph 2.2 and not defined herein have the meanings given to them by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
 
In relation to each issue of Notes, the Dealer subscribing such Notes represents, warrants and undertakes to the Issuer and the Guarantor that:
 
 
 
 
 
where the issue of the Notes would otherwise constitute a contravention of Section 19 of FSMA by the Issuer and the Guarantor;
 
 
4.
Japan
The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan and, accordingly, the Dealer undertakes that it will not offer or sell any Notes, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of any Japanese Person or to others for re-offering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to any Japanese Person expect under circumstances which will result in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the relevant Japanese governmental and regulatory authorities and in effect at the relevant time. For the purposes of this paragraph, "Japanese Person" shall mean any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organised under the laws of Japan.
 
The Dealer agrees that the Notes may not be offered or sold to the public in or from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg unless the requirements of Luxembourg law concerning public offerings and any applicable regulatory requirements and other laws and regulations have been complied with.
 
 
 
 
Agent for Service of Process:
Veeder-Root Finance Company
 
 
[Date]
 
[ - ] (as Issuing and Paying Agent)
Dear Sirs
U.S.$  -  Euro-commercial paper programme
We refer to a dealer agreement dated [ - ] May 2006 (the "") between ourselves as the Issuer, Danaher Corporation as the Guarantor, the Arranger and you as Dealer relating to a U.S.$ 2,200,000,000 Euro-commercial paper programme (the ""). Terms used in the Dealer Agreement shall have the same meaning in this letter.
Dealer Agreement
Programme
In accordance with Clause 2.5 of the Dealer Agreement, we hereby notify each of the addressees listed above that the Maximum Amount of the Programme is to be increased from U.S.$2,200,000,000 to U.S.$[ - ],000,000,000 with effect from [], subject to delivery of the following documents:
date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the date on which such increase in the Maximum Amount becomes effective, all references in the Dealer Agreement to the Maximum Amount or the amount of the Programme shall be construed as references to the increased Maximum Amount as specified herein.
Yours faithfully
 
 
[Date]
 
Dear Sirs
U.S.$ 2,200,000,000 Euro-commercial paper programme
We refer to a dealer agreement dated [ - ] May 2006 (the "") between ourselves as Issuer, Danaher Corporation as the Guarantor, the Arranger and the Dealer relating to a U.S.$ 2,200,000,000 Euro-commercial paper programme (the ""). Terms used in the Dealer Agreement shall have the same meaning in this letter.
Dealer Agreement
Programme
In accordance with Clause 6.2 of the Dealer Agreement, we hereby appoint you as an additional dealer for the Programme upon the terms of the Dealer Agreement with [immediate effect/effect from []]. Please confirm acceptance of your appointment upon such terms by signing and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter, whereupon you will, in accordance with Clause 6.2 of the Dealer Agreement, become a party to the Dealer Agreement vested with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations as if originally named as a Dealer thereunder.
date
Yours faithfully
 
[On copy]
We hereby confirm acceptance of our appointment as a Dealer upon the terms of the Dealer Agreement referred to above. For the purposes of Clause 8 (), our contact details are as follows:
Notices
 
[Name of Dealer]
 
 
 
is made on []
THIS AGREEMENT
date
BETWEEN
 
 
 
WHEREAS:
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
Terms not expressly defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Dealer Agreement or the Agency Agreement.
 
Any reference in this Agreement to any legislation (whether primary legislation or regulations or other subsidiary legislation made pursuant to primary legislation) shall be construed as a reference to such legislation as the same may have been, or may from time to time be, amended or re-enacted.
 
"" means such Index Linked Notes in respect of which the Calculation Agent is appointed.
Relevant Index Linked Notes
 
The Issuer appoints the Calculation Agent as its agent for the purpose of calculating the redemption amount and/or, if applicable, the amount of interest in respect of the Relevant Index Linked Notes upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement. The Calculation Agent accepts such appointment.
 
 
The Calculation Agent shall determine the redemption amount of, and/or, if applicable, the amount of interest payable on, each Relevant Index Linked Note in accordance with the redemption and/or interest calculation applicable thereto.
 
The Calculation Agent shall as soon as it has made its determination as provided for in Clause 3.1 above (and, in any event, no later than the close of business on the date on which the determination is made) notify the Issuer and the Issuing and Paying Agent (if other than the Calculation Agent) of the redemption amount and/or, if applicable, the amount of interest so payable.
 
The Issuer will pay all stamp, registration and other taxes and duties (including any interest and penalties thereon or in connection therewith) payable in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.
 
 
The Issuer shall indemnify and hold harmless on demand the Calculation Agent against any claim, demand, action, liability, damages, cost, loss or expense (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and any applicable value added tax) which it may incur arising out of, in connection with or based upon the exercise of its powers and duties as Calculation Agent under this Agreement, except such as may result from its own negligence or bad faith or that of its officers, employees or agents.
 
The Calculation Agent may consult as to legal matters with lawyers selected by it, who may be employees of, or lawyers to, the Issuer. If such consultation is made, the Calculation Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for action taken or not taken by it as Calculation Agent or suffered to be taken with respect to such matters in good faith, without negligence and in accordance with the opinion of such lawyers.
 
The Calculation Agent and the Issuer agree that its appointment will be subject to the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, for any reason, the Calculation Agent ceases to act as such or fails to comply with its obligations under Clause 3, the Issuer shall appoint the Issuing and Paying Agent as calculation agent in respect of the Relevant Index Linked Notes.
 
A person who is not a party to this Agreement has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Agreement.
 
Clause 8 () of the Dealer Agreement shall apply to this Agreement .
Notices
mutatis mutandis
 
 
This Agreement and all matters arising from or connected with it are governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
 
The courts of England have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute (a ""), arising from or connected with this Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Agreement) or the consequences of its nullity.
Dispute
 
The parties agree that the courts of England are the most appropriate and convenient courts to settle any Dispute and, accordingly, that they will not argue to the contrary.
 
Clause 10.2 is for the benefit of the Calculation Agent only. As a result, nothing in this Clause 10 prevents the Calculation Agent from taking proceedings relating to a Dispute ("") in any other courts with jurisdiction. To the extent allowed by law, the Calculation Agent may take concurrent Proceedings in any number of jurisdictions.
Proceedings
 
The Issuer and the Guarantor agree that the documents which start any Proceedings and any other documents required to be served in relation to those Proceedings may be served on it by being delivered to Vedeer Root Finance Company at Hydrex House, Garden Road, Richmond, Surrey TW9 4NR, United Kingdom for the attention of the Vice President and the Managers, Corporate Finance or, if different, its registered office for the time being or at any address of the Issuer or the Guarantor in Great Britain at which process may be served on it in accordance with Part XXIII of the Companies Act 1985. If such person is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process on behalf of the Issuer or the Guarantor, the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall, on the written demand of the Dealer addressed and delivered to the Issuer or the Guarantor appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf and, failing such appointment within 15 days, the Dealer shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice addressed to the Issuer or the Guarantor and delivered to the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Dealer to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. This clause applies to Proceedings in England and to Proceedings elsewhere.
 
This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts (including facsimile copies), all of which when taken together shall constitute a single agreement.
the hands of the duly authorised representatives of the parties hereto the day and year first before written.
AS WITNESS
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
EXECUTION COPY
 
is made on :
THIS AGREEMENT
May 8, 2006
AMONG:
 
 
 
WHEREAS
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
"" means the Issuing and Paying Agent and any successor or additional agent appointed by the Issuer and/or the Guarantor in accordance with Clause 13 (Changes in Agent);
Agent
"" means, except where the context requires otherwise, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which:
Business Day
 
 
Paying Agent determines with the agreement of the Issuer and the Guarantor that the market practice in respect of euro denominated internationally offered securities is different from that specified above, the above shall be deemed to be amended so as to comply with such market practice and the Issuing and Paying Agent shall procure that a notice of such amendment is published not less than 15 days prior to the date on which any payment in euro falls due to be made in such manner as the Issuing and Paying Agent may determine; or
 
 
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, having its registered office in L-1855 Luxembourg, 42, avenue J.F. Kennedy, registered in the trade register of Luxembourg under number B 9.248 or any successor thereto;
Clearstream, Luxembourg
"" means, in relation to any Notes, a depositary common to Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg;
Common Depositary
"" means in respect of the Notes the terms and conditions applicable thereto;
Conditions
"" means the deed of covenant, dated the date of this Agreement, executed by the Issuer in respect of Global Notes issued pursuant to this Agreement, as such deed may be amended or supplemented from time to time;
Deed of Covenant
"" means a security printed Note in definitive form substantially in the form set out in Schedule A-1 or A-2;
Definitive Note
"" and "" means the single currency introduced at the start of the third stage of European Economic and Monetary Union pursuant to the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended; and "" means a Note denominated in Euros;
Euro
Euro Note
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. as operator of the Euroclear system or any successor thereto;
Euroclear
"" means Euroclear France S.A. as operator of the Euroclear France clearing system or any successor thereto;
Euroclear France
"" means a Note in global form, representing an issue of promissory notes of a like maturity which may be issued by the Issuer or the Guarantor from time to time pursuant to this Agreement substantially in the form set out in Schedule B;
Global Note
"" means the Global Programme Reporting System, a secure internet based reporting/confirmation system offered by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch to its debt programme clients or any successor system offered by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch;
GPR
 
"" means a date on which a Note is, or is to be, issued hereunder as may be agreed by the Issuer or the Guarantor and the relevant Dealer;
Issue Date
"" means, in relation to any payment, the time in the city in which the Issuing and Paying Agent or the relevant branch or office thereof is located;
local time
"" means any day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which commercial banks are open for business in Luxembourg;
Luxembourg Business Day
"" means US$2,200,000,000 or the equivalent amount denominated in any currency other than U.S. dollars when taken together with the principal amount outstanding from time to time under the Guarantor's U.S. commercial paper program, as may be increased from time to time pursuant to the Dealer Agreement;
Maximum Amount
"" means, in relation to any Note, the date of the maturity of that Note in accordance with its terms;
Maturity Date
"" means a commercial paper note issued by the Issuer or the Guarantor and purchased or to be purchased by a Dealer under the Dealer Agreement, in definitive or global form, substantially in the relevant form scheduled hereto or such other form as may be agreed from time to time between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Issuing and Paying Agent and, unless the context otherwise requires, includes the commercial paper notes represented by the Global Notes;
Note
"" means, in relation to any Agent, the office specified against its name on the signature page hereof or, in the case of an Agent not originally party hereto, specified in its terms of appointment or such other office in the same city or town as such Agent may specify by notice to the Issuer, the Guarantor and the other parties hereto in accordance with Clause 13.8;
specified office
"" and "" denote the lawful currency of the United Kingdom; and "" means a Note denominated in Sterling;
Sterling
Sterling Note
"" means a day on which the TransEuropean Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or any successor thereto, is open; and
TARGET Business Day
"" and "" denote the lawful currency of Japan; and "" means a note denominated in Yen.
Yen
Yen Note
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) substantially in the relevant form scheduled hereto or, as the case may be, such other form as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Issuing and Paying Agent from time to time;
 
(ii) duly executed manually or in facsimile on behalf of the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be; and
(iii) authenticated manually or electronically by an authorised signatory of the Issuing and Paying Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
this Agreement and all such other information as the Issuing and Paying Agent may require for it to carry out its functions as contemplated by this clause 4.1 and the Issuing and Paying Agent shall thereupon be authorised to complete a Global Note of the appropriate aggregate principal amount of such Notes by inserting in the appropriate place on the face of each Note, the dates on which such Note shall be issued and shall mature and otherwise completing and authenticating the same. For the purposes of this clause 4.1, the Issuing and Paying Agent may, if it considers it appropriate in the circumstances, treat a telephone communication from a person who it reasonably believes to have been duly authorised by the Issuer, failing whom the Guarantor, as sufficient instructions and authority from the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, to act in accordance with the provisions of this clause 4.1, and the Issuer, failing whom the Guarantor, shall confirm such communication in writing no later than the relevant time referred to above or by such later time as may be agreed by the Issuer and the Issuing and Paying Agent. For the avoidance of doubt, when treating a telephone communication as sufficient instructions, the Issuing and Paying Agent shall continue to benefit from all the protections afforded to it under this Agreement.
inter alia,
 
 
 
proposed issue date to or to the order of Euroclear France (which may be by delivery to the sub-depositary to the Common Depositary) for credit on the issue date of such Note to such securities account as shall have been notified to it; or (iii) if no such details are given, or, in the case of Sterling Definitive Notes, make the same available on its issue date for collection at its specified office in London. The foregoing obligation is subject to the Issuing and Paying Agent not having received a notice in accordance with the provisions of clause 4.2 ().
Notification
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including) the date on which it is paid out to (but excluding) the earlier of the date of reimbursement of the Advance in full or receipt by the Issuing and Paying Agent of the Advance in full at the rate per annum equal to the cost to the Issuing and Paying Agent of funding such Advance plus one percent per annum as certified by the Issuing and Paying Agent to the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be. Such interest shall accrue daily. For the avoidance of doubt, the Issuing and Paying Agent shall not be obliged to pay any Advance to the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, if it has not received confirmation satisfactory to it that it is to receive a Payment from the relevant person.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or, in each case, by such other form of transfer as may be agreed between the Issuer, failing whom the Guarantor, and the Issuing and Paying Agent. If the Issuing and Paying Agent determines in its absolute discretion that the payment in accordance with this Clause 5.1 is required to be made earlier, it will provide to the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, not less than 30 days prior notice in writing of such requirement.
 
 
If the Issuing and Paying Agent makes such payment on behalf of the Issuer and/or the Guarantor under this clause 5.3 at a time when it has not received payment in full in respect of the relevant Notes in accordance with clause 5.1 () (the excess of the amounts so paid over the amounts so received being the ""), the Issuer and/or the Guarantor shall be liable on demand by the Issuing and Paying Agent to pay to the Issuing and Paying Agent the Shortfall plus interest (at a rate quoted at that time by the Issuing and Paying Agent as its cost of funding the Shortfall (plus one per cent. per annum) as certified by the Issuing and Paying Agent to the Issuer and the Guarantor. Such interest shall accrue daily.
Payment to the Issuing and Paying Agent
Shortfall
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement Notes shall be delivered to Euroclear, Euroclear France or Clearstream, Luxembourg as applicable for credit to such account as the applicant may require or, at the option and expense of such applicant, to such other account or in such other manner as such applicant may direct.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuing and Paying Agent shall not be liable for any loss caused by events beyond the Issuing and Paying Agent's reasonable control including any malfunction, interruption or error in the transmission of information caused by any machine or systems or interception of communication facilities, abnormal operating conditions or events of force majeure. Nothing in this Agreement limits or excludes a party's liability: (i) for fraud or wilful default; or (ii) for death or personal injury caused by its negligence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these circumstances the Issuer and the Guarantor will appoint a replacement Agent and give notice of this appointment to the holder of any Note as soon as practicable in accordance with the Conditions.
 
 
 
Paying Agent is required and by the tenth day before the expiration of such notice such replacement has not been appointed by the Issuer and the Guarantor, then the Issuing and Paying Agent may, itself, appoint on behalf of the Issuer and the Guarantor as its replacement any reputable and experienced bank or financial institution. Immediately following such appointment, such Agent shall give notice of such appointment to the Issuer and the Guarantor, whereupon the parties hereto and such replacement agent shall thereafter have the same rights and obligations among them as would have been the case had they then entered into an agreement in the form of this Agreement.
mutatis mutandis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
through clause 13.5 () and clause 13.8 () of which it is aware and, as soon as practicable, notice of any succession under clause 13.7 () of which it is aware. The Issuer or the Guarantor shall give holders of Notes as soon as practicable, notice of any termination under clause 13.3 () of which it is aware.
Appointment of Bank or Financial Institution
Change of Office
Successor Corporations
Automatic Termination
 
 
This Agreement may only be amended by the parties hereto for the time being in writing.
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto on different counterparts each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 
If a provision of this Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, that shall not affect:
 
 
 
A person who is not a party to this Agreement has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Agreement, but this does not affect any right or remedy of a third party which exists or is available apart from that Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning.
 
The Issuer
 
 
The Guarantor
 
 
 
The Issuing and Paying Agent
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
EXECUTION COPY
 
[Published CUSIP Number: ____________]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of May 9, 2006 (this ""), is entered into among DANAHER CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain Subsidiaries of the Company party hereto pursuant to (each a "" and, together with the Company, the "" and, each a ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and UBS AG, STAMFORD BRANCHas Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Company
Section 2.14
Designated Borrower
Borrowers
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
,
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
"" has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 11.21
"" means UBS in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 11.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to be Controlled by another Person if such other Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors, managing general partners or the equivalent.
Affiliate
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 
"" means the Administrative Agent, together with its Affiliates (including the Arranger), and the officers, directors, employees, agents and attorneys-in-fact of such Persons and Affiliates.
Agent-Related Persons
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Yen and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.07
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means, on any date of determination, an amount equal to 90% of the Aggregate Commitments on such date. The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
"" has the meaning specified in .
Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents
Section 5.15
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Company's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that if a Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
 
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective, in the case of an upgrade, during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change and, in the case of a downgrade, during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(vi)
Section 6.03(e)
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments related to Loans denominated in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning specified in .
Applicant Borrower
Section 2.14
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means UBS Securities LLC, in its capacity as lead arranger and book manager in respect of the Commitments hereunder.
Arranger
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an Assignment and Assumption substantially in the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit D
"" means and includes all fees, expenses and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel.
Attorney Costs
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Off Balance Sheet Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
 
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans.
Availability Period
Section 2.06
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by UBS as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by UBS based upon various factors including UBS's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by UBS shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" and "" each has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
Borrowers
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each Lender pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
(a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
(b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
(c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which
 
dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
"" means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding (i) any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan and (ii) Steven M. Rales and Mitchell P. Rales) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 30% or more of the equity securities of such Person entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of such Person cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
 
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with (or, in the case of , waived by the Person entitled to receive the applicable payment).
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(b)
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to , in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Company
"" means the Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, in respect of the Obligations of the Designated Borrowers pursuant to of this Agreement.
Company Guaranty
Article X
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and (c) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) and (b) above of Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) the sum of such Consolidated Funded Indebtedness Shareholders' Equity as of such date.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
plus
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Affiliate."
Control
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (a) the Base Rate (b) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Designated Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Notice
Section 2.14
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
Section 2.14
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , ,  and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 11.07(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
Section 11.07(b)(iii)
 
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the
Eurocurrency Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
Administrative Agent as the rate of interest at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by UBS and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by UBS's London Branch (or other UBS branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period.
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to UBS on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Lender
Section 11.15(a)(i)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Obligor
Section 5.15
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or a state thereof.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" means any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, administrative tribunal, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 11.07(h)
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person. The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
"" has the meaning specified in .
Guaranteed Obligations
Section 10.01
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);
 
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f) capital leases and Off Balance Sheet Obligations; and
(g) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Off Balance Sheet Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnified Liabilities
Section 11.05
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitees
Section 11.05
"" means, (a) as to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date for the applicable Loan.
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law, including, without limitation all Environmental Laws.
Laws
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
"" means the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
Lender Party
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" has the meaning specified in .
Loan
Section 2.01
"" means this Agreement (including the Company Guaranty), each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, each Note, and each Request for Borrowing.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" means, collectively, the Company and each Designated Borrower.
Loan Parties
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.01
"" means Regulations T, U and X of the FRB.
Margin Regulations
"" has the meaning specified in the Margin Regulations.
Margin Stock
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the business, assets, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a
Material Adverse Effect
 
party; (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (d) a material adverse effect upon the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document.
"" means May 8, 2007; , , that if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, as at any particular date of determination, the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items ) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, as set forth in the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Net Tangible Assets
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment) or (c) an agreement for the sale of receivables or like assets creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, could be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Off Balance Sheet Obligation
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents
Organization Documents
 
with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Other Taxes
Section 3.01(b)
"" means with respect to the Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Loans occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the Federal Funds Rate, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of UBS in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 11.07(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Company or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Commitment of such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Commitments at such time; that if the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to , or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Pro Rata Share of each Lender shall be determined based on the Pro Rata Share of such Lender immediately prior to such termination and after giving effect to any subsequent assignments made pursuant to the terms hereof. The initial Pro Rata Share of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Pro Rata Share
provided
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 11.07(c)
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means a Loan Notice with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans.
Request for Borrowing
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer, corporate controller, any vice president or executive vice president of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other equity interest of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other equity interest or of any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such capital stock or other equity interest.
Restricted Payment
"" means with respect to any Loan, each of the following: (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency
Revaluation Date
 
pursuant to ; and (iii) such additional dates as (A) the Administrative Agent shall determine for the purposes of determining the Alternative Currency Equivalent or Dollar Equivalent amounts of Borrowings and Outstanding Amounts as contemplated hereunder or (B) the Required Lenders shall require.
Section 2.02
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
"" has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 11.07(h)
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in the capacity of a foreign exchange trader for the Administrative Agent hereunder as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency.
Spot Rate
provided
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise
Subsidiary
 
specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
"" has the meaning specified in .
Taxes
Section 3.01(a)
"" means $75,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
"" means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
"" means UBS AG, Stamford Branch, and its successors.
UBS
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets,
Unfunded Pension Liability
 
determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of Japan.
Yen
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
(a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
(b) (i) The words "herein," "hereto," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.
(ii) Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Loan Document in which such reference appears.
(iii) The term "" is by way of example and not limitation.
including
(iv) The term "" includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports, financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.
documents
(c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including;" the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding;" and the word "through" means "to and including."
(d) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
(e) All references to any Person shall also refer to the successors and assigns of such Person permitted hereunder.
. (a) All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03 Accounting Terms
except
(b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate
 
in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); provided that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to Organization Documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and (b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.
1.05 References to Agreements and Laws
. (a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Borrowings and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent.
1.06 Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
(b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Borrowing, or conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Borrowing or Eurocurrency Rate Loan is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent.
. (a) The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into
1.07 Additional Alternative Currencies
provided
 
Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
(b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., 15 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Borrowing (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency.
(c) Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Company.
Section 1.07
. (a) Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
1.08 Change of Currency
provided
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.09 Times of Day
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Company or a Designated Borrower in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Loans of any Lender shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment and (iii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Loans
Loan
provided
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
.
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
(a) Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company and, if applicable, any Designated Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, (vi) the currency of the Loans to be borrowed, and (vii) if applicable, the Designated Borrower. If the Company fails to specify a currency in a Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars. If the Company fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; ,
Section 2.02(a)
provided
 
, that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. No Loan may be converted into or continued as a Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
however
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Pro Rata Share of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 2:00 p.m., in the case of any Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the other applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of UBS with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders; , , that without the consent of the Required Lenders any Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency may be continued only for a one month Interest Period at any time that a Default has occurred and is continuing and no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. At any time that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
provided
however
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. The determination of the Eurocurrency Rate by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. At any time that Base
 
Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in UBS's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
(f) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Loans comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $5,000,000, such Loans shall, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Loans are denominated in Dollars, automatically be converted into Base Rate Loans, and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Loans are denominated in any Alternative Currency (other than Dollars), be repaid by the Borrower.
.
2.03 [Reserved]
.
2.04 [Reserved]
. (a) Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iv) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall irrevocably make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.
2.05 Prepayments
provided
Section 3.05
(b) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrowers shall immediately prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
 
(c) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds an amount equal to 105% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect.
(d) No optional prepayment of Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency may be made other than on the last day of the applicable Interest Period for such Loans, unless the Lenders consent thereto.
. The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Pro Rata Share. All facility and utilization fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.06 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
. Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date.
2.07 Repayment of Loans
. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate.
2.08 Interest
plus
plus
(b) If any amount payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Furthermore, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, each Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
 
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. On each Interest Payment Date for a Base Rate Loan, interest accrued on such Loan to but excluding such Interest Payment Date shall be due and payable. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
.
2.09 Fees
(a) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, a facility fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Loans), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Loans remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met. The facility fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). On each such payment date all facility fees which have accrued to but excluding any such payment date shall be due and payable. The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
(b) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, a utilization fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate the Total Outstandings on each day that the Total Outstandings 50% of the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect (or, if terminated, in effect immediately prior to such termination). The utilization fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date. On each such payment date all utilization fees which have accrued to but excluding any such payment date shall be due and payable. The utilization fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate for each period during which such Applicable Rate was in effect. The utilization fee shall accrue at all times, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met.
Utilization Fee
times
exceed
Article IV
. All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by UBS's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
 
Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
. The Borrowings made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Borrowings made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to such Borrower in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
2.11 Evidence of Debt
. (a) (i) All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. (ii) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on any Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. (iii) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Pro Rata Share (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. (iv) All payments received by the Administrative Agent (A) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (B) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.
2.12 Payments Generally
 
(b) If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(c) Unless any Borrower or any Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, prior to the date any payment is required to be made by it to the Administrative Agent hereunder, that such Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, has timely made such payment and may (but shall not be so required to), in reliance thereon, make available a corresponding amount to the Person entitled thereto. If and to the extent that such payment was not in fact made to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds, then:
(i) if any Borrower failed to make such payment, each Lender shall forthwith on demand repay to the Administrative Agent the portion of such assumed payment that was made available to such Lender in Same Day Funds, together with interest thereon in respect of each day from and including the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to such Lender to the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect; and
(ii) if any Lender failed to make such payment, such Lender shall forthwith on demand pay to the Administrative Agent the amount thereof in Same Day Funds, together with interest thereon for the period from the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to a Borrower to the date such amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (the "") at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in the applicable Borrowing. If such Lender does not pay such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the applicable Borrower, and such Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights which the Administrative Agent or any Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder.
Compensation Period
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (c) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(d) If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this Article II, and such funds are not made available to such Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in Article IV are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
 
(e) The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan.
(f) Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
. If, other than as expressly provided elsewhere herein, any Lender shall obtain on account of the Loans made by it, any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) in excess of its ratable share (or other share contemplated hereunder) thereof, such Lender shall immediately (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Loans made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment in respect of such Loans pro rata with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from the purchasing Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the purchasing Lender in its discretion), such purchase shall to that extent be rescinded and each other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price paid therefor, without interest thereon. Each Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off, but subject to ) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation. The Administrative Agent will keep records (which shall be conclusive and binding in the absence of manifest error) of participations purchased under this Section and will in each case notify the Lenders following any such purchases or repayments. Each Lender that purchases a participation pursuant to this Section shall from and after such purchase have the right to give all notices, requests, demands, directions and other communications under this Agreement with respect to the portion of the Obligations purchased to the same extent as though the purchasing Lender were the original owner of the Obligations purchased.
2.13 Sharing of Payments
provided
however
Section 11.06
Section 11.09
. (a) The Company may at any time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), designate any Subsidiary of the Company (an "") as a Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder by delivering to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver counterparts thereof to each Lender) a duly executed notice and agreement in substantially the form of (a ""). The Administrative Agent shall provide each Lender with a copy of each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement promptly upon receipt thereof. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Applicant Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for herein the Administrative Agent shall have received (i) such supporting resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, in form, content and scope
2.14 Designated Borrowers
Applicant Borrower
Exhibit E
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
 
reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as may be required by the Administrative Agent in its sole reasonable discretion (including, without, limitation, (A) documentation and information to evaluate any withholding tax or regulatory matters under applicable Laws as may arise in respect of any Loans made to such Applicant Borrower and the manner in which Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be made available to such Applicant Borrower and (B) such other reasonable documentation and information required by bank regulatory authorities under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including without limitation, the Act, to the extent reasonably requested by any Lender through the Administrative Agent) and (ii) Notes signed by such Applicant Borrower to the extent any Lender so requires. Promptly following receipt of all such requested documents and information from an Applicant Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall send a notice in substantially the form of (a "") to the Company and the Lenders specifying the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof. Upon the effective date specified in a Designated Borrower Notice, the Designated Borrower designated therein may request Loans hereunder on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and each of the parties agrees that such Designated Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement; that no Loan Notice may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days after such effective date.
Exhibit F
Designated Borrower Notice
provided
(b) The Obligations of each Designated Borrower which is a Foreign Subsidiary shall be several in nature. The Obligations of each Designated Borrower shall be guaranteed by the Company pursuant to the Company Guaranty.
(c) Each Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a "Designated Borrower" pursuant to this hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder. Any acknowledgment, consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by the Company, whether or not any such other Borrower joins therein. Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Designated Borrower.
Section 2.14
(d) Any Lender may, with notice to the Administrative Agent and the Company pursuant to , fulfill its Commitment hereunder in respect of any Loans requested to be made by such Lender to a Designated Borrower not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act for such Lender to make such Loans to such Designated Borrower in the place and stead of such Lender as provided in .
Section 11.07(k)
Section 11.07(k)
 
(e) If any Lender determines that it would be unlawful under applicable Law, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for such Lender to make, maintain or fund Loans to an Applicant Borrower, then such Lender may deliver written notice of such determination not later than 10 Business Days following receipt by such Lender of the applicable Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement for such Applicant Borrower pursuant to , which notice shall describe in reasonable detail the Law or assertion of a Governmental Authority giving rise to such impediment. The Company shall have the right to replace any Lender delivering such a notice as provided in . Following delivery of such notice by a Lender with respect to an Applicant Borrower the Administrative Agent shall not deliver a Designated Borrower Notice confirming such Applicant Borrower as a Designated Borrower which is permitted to request Loans hereunder unless and until such Lender has been replaced pursuant to .
Section 2.14(a)
Section 11.16
Section 11.16
(f) The Company may from time to time, upon not less than 5 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower's status as such, provided that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it, as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of any such termination of a Designated Borrower.
.
3.01 Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by the Borrowers to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income, branch profits taxes, back-up withholding taxes, and franchise or other similar taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, is organized, maintains a lending office or does business (other than doing business solely as a result of entering into this Agreement, performing any obligations hereunder, receiving any payments hereunder or enforcing any rights hereunder) (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""). If any Borrower shall be required by any Laws to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section), each of the Administrative Agent and such Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount
Taxes
 
deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable Laws, and (iv) to the extent reasonably practicable, within 30 days after the date of such payment, such Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent (which shall forward the same to such Lender) the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.
(b) In addition, each Borrower agrees to pay any and all present or future stamp, court or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made by such Borrower under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) If any Borrower shall be required to deduct or pay any Taxes or Other Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, such Borrower shall also pay to the Administrative Agent or to such Lender, as the case may be, at the time interest is paid, such additional amount that the Administrative Agent or such Lender specifies is necessary to preserve the after-tax yield (after factoring in all taxes, including taxes imposed on or measured by net income) that the Administrative Agent or such Lender would have received if such Taxes or Other Taxes had not been imposed.
(d) Each Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender for (i) the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent and such Lender, (ii) amounts payable under and (iii) any liability (including additions to tax, penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. Payment under this subsection (d) shall be made within 30 days after the date the Lender or the Administrative Agent makes a written demand therefor, which demand shall be made within 90 days of the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent pays such Taxes of Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority.
Section 3.01(c)
(e) Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders under regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish such Lender's status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Company, as the Administrative Agent or the Company shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts
Section 11.15
 
payable to such Lender. Additionally, each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f) If and to the extent that any Lender or the Administrative Agent, in its sole discretion (exercised in good faith), determines that it has received or been granted a credit against, relief from, a refund or remission of, or a repayment of, any Taxes or Other Taxes in respect of which it has received additional payments under this , and such credit, refund, relief or remission has been obtained, utilized and fully retained by such Lender or the Administrative Agent on an affiliated group basis, then such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall pay to the Borrowers an amount which such Lender or the Administrative Agent determines, in its sole discretion (exercised in good faith) will leave it, after the payments, in the same after-tax position as it would have been in had the payments required under this not been required to be made by the Borrowers; provided however that (i) such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall be the sole judge of the amount of such credit, refund, relief or remission and the date on which it is received; (ii) such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall not be obliged to disclose information regarding its tax affairs or tax computations; (iii) nothing in this shall interfere with such Lender's or the Administrative Agent's right to manage its tax affairs in whatever manner it sees fit; and (iv) if such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall subsequently determine that it has lost all or a portion of such tax credit, refund, relief or remission, the Borrowers shall promptly remit to such Lender or the Administrative Agent the amount certified by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to be the amount necessary to restore such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the position it would have been in if no payment had been made pursuant to this section.
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(f)
(g) The Borrowers' obligations to indemnify a Foreign Lender or pay additional amounts to a Foreign Lender under this are subject to .
Section 3.01
Section 11.15(a)(iii)
. If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the
3.02 Illegality
 
Borrowers shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted. Each Lender agrees to designate a different Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for such notice and will not, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender.
. If the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (i) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (ii) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
.
3.04 Increased Cost and Reduced Return; Capital Adequacy; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans
(a) If any Lender determines that as a result of the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any Law, or such Lender's compliance therewith, there shall be any increase in the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding, maintaining or participating in Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or a reduction in the amount received or receivable by such Lender in connection with any of the foregoing (excluding for purposes of this subsection (a) any such increased costs or reduction in amount resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which shall govern), (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or any foreign jurisdiction or any political subdivision of either thereof under the Laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Lending Office, (iii) reserve requirements contemplated by and (iv) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below) or the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, does not represent the cost to such Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of
Section 3.01
Section 3.04(c)
 
England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, then from time to time upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction or, if applicable, the portion of such cost that is not represented by the Mandatory Cost.
(b) If any Lender determines that the introduction of any Law regarding capital adequacy or any change therein or in the interpretation thereof, or compliance by such Lender (or its Lending Office) therewith, has the effect of reducing the rate of return on the capital of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender as a consequence of such Lender's obligations hereunder (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy and such Lender's desired return on capital), then from time to time upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for such reduction.
(c) The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, provided the Company shall have received at least 15 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 15 days from receipt of such notice.
. Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company or the applicable Designated Borrower; or
(c) any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to ;
Section 11.16
 
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Company shall also pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company (or the applicable Designated Borrower) to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
.
3.06 Matters Applicable to all Requests for Compensation
(a) A certificate of the Administrative Agent or any Lender claiming compensation under this and setting forth the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.
Article III
(b) Upon any Lender's making a claim for compensation under or , the Company may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 11.16
. All of the Borrowers' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
. The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Loan hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Borrowing
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or facsimiles (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Company, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, its legal counsel and each of the Lenders:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Company;
(ii) Notes executed by the Company in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Company as the Administrative
 
Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Company is duly organized or formed, and is validly existing, in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization, including certified copies of the Company's Organization Documents, and certificates of good standing and tax clearance certificates;
(v) a favorable opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, special counsel to the Company, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in the form set forth in ;
Exhibit G
(vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) the current Debt Ratings; and
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
(vii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Company shall have paid all Attorney Costs of the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of Attorney Costs as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of Attorney Costs incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent).
(d) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required hereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Borrowing (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Borrowings
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in Article V or any representations and warranties of any Loan Party in other Loan Document, or which are
 
contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , (i) the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of and (ii) the representations and warranties in subsection (c) of and subsection (b) of , need only be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 5.05
Section 5.06
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Borrowing.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Borrowing in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(d) If the applicable Borrower is a Designated Borrower, then the conditions of to the designation of such Borrower as a Designated Borrower shall have been met to the satisfaction of the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.14
(e) In the case of a Borrowing to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (in the case of any Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) would make it impracticable for such Borrowing to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Each Request for Borrowing (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) submitted by the Company shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Borrowing.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Each Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
. Each Loan Party (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws
 
. The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, (i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party contemplating payments in excess of the Threshold Amount to, or to be due from, the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention
. No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than any thereof as have been obtained, taken or made on or prior to the Closing Date and remain in full force and effect.
5.03 Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
. This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms.
5.04 Binding Effect
.
5.05 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness, in each case, to the extent required to be reflected thereon pursuant to GAAP consistently applied.
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to , and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments, and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, including liabilities for
Section 6.01(b)
 
taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness, in each case, to the extent required to be reflected thereon pursuant to GAAP consistently applied.
(c) As of the Closing Date, since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
. There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Company after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) as of the Closing Date, except as set forth on , for which there is (based on facts and circumstances known to the Borrowers after due inquiry) a reasonable likelihood of an adverse determination and which, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06 Litigation
Schedule 5.06
. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.07 No Default
. Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good record title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Company and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
5.08 Ownership of Property
; Liens
Section 7.01
. The Company and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Company has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in , such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09 Environmental Compliance
Schedule 5.09
. The properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Company or the applicable Subsidiary operates (it being understood that a program of self-insurance for first or other loss layers may be utilized).
5.10 Insurance
. The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted by the Company. To the
5.11 Taxes
 
Company's knowledge, there is no proposed tax assessment against the Company or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
.
5.12 ERISA Compliance
(a) The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) (i) No ERISA Event likely to result in material liability for the Company has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability in any material amount; (iii) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any material liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any material liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could reasonably be expected to be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
.
5.13 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
(a) No Borrower is engaged or will engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock, or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
(b) None of the Company, any Person Controlling the Company, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
5.14 Disclosure
 
. (a) Each Loan Party that is a Foreign Subsidiary (a "") is subject to civil and commercial law with respect to its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Foreign Obligor is a party (collectively, the ""), and the execution, delivery and performance by such Foreign Obligor of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents constitute and will constitute private and commercial acts and not public or governmental acts. Neither such Foreign Obligor nor any of its property has any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) under the laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing in respect of its obligations under the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents.
5.15 Foreign Obligor Representations
Foreign Obligor
Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents
(b) The Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents are in proper legal form under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Foreign Obligor is organized and existing for the enforcement thereof against such Foreign Obligor under the law of such jurisdiction, and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents. It is not necessary to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents that the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents be filed, registered or recorded with, or executed or notarized before, any court or other authority in the jurisdiction in which any Foreign Obligor is organized and existing or that any registration charge or stamp or similar tax be paid on or in respect of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents or any other document, except for any such filing, registration or recording, or execution or notarization, as has been made or is not required to be made until the Applicable Foreign Obligor Document or any other document is sought to be enforced and for any charge or tax as has been timely paid.
(c) There is no tax, levy, impost, duty, fee, assessment or other governmental charge, or any deduction or withholding, imposed by any Governmental Authority in or of the jurisdiction in which the Foreign Obligor is organized and existing either (A) on or by virtue of the execution or delivery of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents to which the Foreign Obligor is a party or (B) on any payment to be made by the Foreign Obligor pursuant to the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents, except as has been disclosed to the Administrative Agent.
(d) The execution, delivery and performance of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents executed by any Foreign Obligor are, under applicable foreign exchange control regulations of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing, not subject to any notification or authorization except (A) such as have been made or obtained or (B) such as cannot be made or obtained until a later date (provided that any notification or authorization described in immediately preceding clause (B) shall be made or obtained as soon as is reasonably practicable).
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of Ernst & Young or another independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Company's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Company as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Company shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in subsections (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(d)
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
(a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any Default or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;
Section 6.01(a)
 
(b) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(c) promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any final management letter submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Company by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
(d) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Company, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports which the Company may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(e) promptly after the Company has notified the Administrative Agent of any intention by the Company to treat the Loans as being a "reportable transaction" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4), a duly completed copy of IRS Form 8886 or any successor form; and
(f) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or  or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency, SyndTrak or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Company shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Company shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Company shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(d)
Schedule 11.02
provided
i.e.
Section 6.02(c)
 
shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks, SyndTrak or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). Each Borrower hereby agrees that (i) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (ii) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (provided, however, that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (iii) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Borrower shall be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC"
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.
Public Lender
Section 11.08
. Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
(b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Company or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation, investigation or proceeding affecting the Company or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws, to the extent such matters in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event which may result in material liability for the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company or any Subsidiary; and
(e) of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change or possible change in a Debt Rating.
 
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
. Pay and discharge, and cause its Subsidiaries to make funds available to it in amounts sufficient to pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves, if any, in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; (b) all material lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves, if any, in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; and (c) all material Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
6.04 Payment of Obligations
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing (or equivalent status) under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except in a transaction permitted by or to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Preservation of Existence, Etc.
Section 7.02;
Section 7.02
. (a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties
. Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons (it being understood that a program of self-insurance for first loss or other loss layers may be utilized).
6.07 Maintenance of Insurance
. Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction
6.08 Compliance with Laws
 
or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
. Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.09 Books and Records
. Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Company at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
6.10 Inspection Rights
provided
however
. Do, and cause each of its ERISA Affiliates to do, each of the following: (a) maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code to maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code except where the failure to comply with this could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.11 Compliance with ERISA
Section 6.11
. Use the proceeds of the Borrowings to repay the Existing Credit Facilities and for general corporate purposes (including acquisitions, capital expenditures and share repurchases) not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
6.12 Use of Proceeds
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
. Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens
(a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b) Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on Schedule 7.01;
 
(c) Liens for taxes not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted by the Company;
(d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves, if any, with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than for money borrowed), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business (including deposits to secure letters of credit issued to secure any such obligation);
(g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(h) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
Section 8.01(h)
(i) any interest or title of a lessor under any operating lease entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of its business and covering only the assets so leased;
(j) licenses, operating leases or subleases permitted hereunder granted to other Persons in the ordinary course of business not interfering in any material respect with the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(k) Liens arising from precautionary UCC financing statement filings with respect to operating leases or consignment arrangements entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
(l) Liens in favor of banking institutions arising by operation of law encumbering deposits (including the right of set-off) held by such banking institutions incurred in the ordinary course of business and that are within the general parameters customary in the banking industry;
(m) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Subsidiary or becomes a Subsidiary of the Company; provided that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or
 
acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Company or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary;
(n) other Liens securing Indebtedness in an aggregate outstanding principal amount on any date not to exceed 10% of Net Tangible Assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the most recently completed fiscal quarter of the Company prior to such date; and
(o) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (b) or (m) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Indebtedness secured thereby.
. Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
7.02 Fundamental Changes
(a) the Company may merge or consolidate with or into another Person if either (i) the Company is the surviving Person or (ii) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged (any such Person, the "Successor") shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, in a writing executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent for delivery to each Lender, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which writing shall include, without limitation, a certification as to pro forma compliance with ), the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and the performance of the other Obligations under this Agreement (including the Company Guaranty) and the other Loan Documents on the part of the Company to be performed or observed, as fully as if such Successor were originally named as the initial Borrower in this Agreement;
Section 7.06
(b) any Subsidiary may merge with (or dissolve into) (i) the Company, provided that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more Subsidiaries; and
(c) any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise), (i) to the Company, (ii) to another Subsidiary or (iii) to another Person; provided, that no Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to another Person (other than the Company or another Subsidiary) in a transaction or series of related transactions in which all or substantially all of the assets of all material Subsidiaries of the Company (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) are Disposed of.
. Enter into any agreement prohibiting or limiting the ability of any Subsidiary of any Borrower (a) to make payments, directly or indirectly, to such Borrower by way of dividends, advances, repayments of loans or advances, reimbursement of intercompany expenses or accruals or other returns on investment, or any other agreement or arrangement which restricts the ability of any such Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or
7.03 Burdensome Agreements
 
indirectly, to such Borrower, (b) to Guarantee the Obligations of such Borrower or (c) to create or incur or suffer to exist Liens on its assets to secure such a Guarantee, except for restrictions imposed in connection with an agreement which has been entered into for the Disposition of a Subsidiary or its assets otherwise permitted by .
Section 7.02
. Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Company, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than terms substantially as favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate, provided that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to transactions between or among the Company and any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries or between and among any wholly-owned Subsidiaries.
7.04 Transactions with Affiliates
. Use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, in each case, in a manner which violates or contravenes the Margin Regulations. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company will provide the Administrative Agent with written notice (a) promptly following any date on which more than 20% of the value of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Company) consist of or are represented by Margin Stock, and (b) at least 15 Business Days prior to any proposed transaction in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries proposes to directly or indirectly use the proceeds of any Borrowing to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose if, after giving effect to such proposed transaction, more than 20% of the value of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Company) will consist of or be represented by Margin Stock. Each such notice shall either (i) include a certification by the Company that, as of the date of such certificate and, in the case of a proposed transaction described in clause (b) above, also on a pro forma basis immediately after giving effect to such proposed transaction, not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Company) consist of or are represented by Margin Stock, or (ii) be accompanied by a legal opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent confirming compliance by the Company with the first sentence of this Section as of the date of such opinion and, in the case of a proposed transaction described in clause (b) above, also on a pro forma basis giving effect to such proposed transaction, together with appropriately executed and completed purpose statements on Form FR U-1 for each Lender. The Administrative Agent shall forward copies of each such written notice from the Company, together with copies of any accompanying legal opinion and such purpose statements to the Lenders promptly following receipt thereof.
7.05 Use of Proceeds
. Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be greater than 0.650:1
7.06 Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
. Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default
(a) . Any Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or any facility, utilization or other fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b) . The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.03(a)
6.05
6.11
Article VII
(c) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after any Lender shall have given written notice thereof to the Company (through the Administrative Agent) or the Company shall have otherwise become aware of such default; or
Other Defaults
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e) . (i) The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise but after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so
Cross-Default
 
defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
(f) . Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries which, in the case of any such Subsidiary, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Company contributed or was accountable for at least 5% of the revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such year, institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g) . (i) The Company or any Subsidiary which, in the case of any such Subsidiary, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Company contributed or was accountable for at least 5% of the revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such year, becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 60 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h) . There is entered against the Company or any Subsidiary (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 15 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party
Invalidity of Loan Documents
 
or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control with respect to the Company.
Change of Control
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers; and
(c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in subsection (f) of , the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, in each case, without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
Section 8.01
. (a) After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received by the Administrative Agent on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest, facility fees and utilization fees) payable to the Lenders (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid facility fees and utilization fees, and interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
(b) For purposes of calculating the portion of any such amount received by the Administrative Agent in any currency to be applied as provided in , the Administrative Agent may designate the date of such receipt as a Revaluation Date for purposes of determining the Spot Rates of the currency in which such amount is denominated and the Spot Rates of any currencies in which any applicable Obligations are denominated. The Administrative Agent shall so apply any such amount by making payments denominated in the same currency as the amount so received by the Administrative Agent is denominated.
Section 8.03(a)
. Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints, designates and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to it by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained elsewhere herein or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, nor shall the Administrative Agent have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender or participant, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Loan Documents with reference to the Administrative Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable Law. Instead, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and neither the Company nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any such provisions.
9.01 Appointment and Authorization of Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement or any other Loan Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact, including, for the purposes of any Borrowings or payments in Alternative Currencies, such sub-administrative agents as shall be deemed necessary by the Administrative Agent, and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct. Any such agent, sub-agent or other Person retained or
9.02 Delegation of Duties
 
employed pursuant to this shall have all the benefits and immunities provided to the Administrative Agent in this with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such Person in connection herewith or therewith, as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in this and in the definition of "Agent-Related Person" included such additional Persons with respect to such acts or omissions.
Section 9.02
Article IX
Article IX
. No Agent-Related Person shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the transactions contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with its duties expressly set forth herein), or (b) be responsible in any manner to any Lender or participant for any recital, statement, representation or warranty made by any Loan Party or any officer thereof, contained herein or in any other Loan Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for any failure of any Loan Party or any other party to any Loan Document to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Lender or participant to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof.
9.03 Liability of Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, communication, signature, resolution, representation, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, facsimile, telex or telephone message, electronic mail message, statement or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to any Loan Party), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under any Loan Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders as it deems appropriate and, if it so requests, it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document in accordance with a request or consent of the Required Lenders (or such greater number of Lenders as may be expressly required hereby in any instance) and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders.
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default, except with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice from a Lender or the Company referring to this Agreement, describing such Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." The Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of its
9.05 Notice of Default
 
receipt of any such notice. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default as may be directed by the Required Lenders in accordance with ; , , that unless and until the Administrative Agent has received any such direction, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the Lenders.
Article VIII
provided
however
. Each Lender acknowledges that no Agent-Related Person has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereafter taken, including any confirmation of any Applicant Borrower as a Designated Borrower pursuant to or any consent to and acceptance of any assignment or review of the affairs of any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Lender as to any matter, including whether Agent-Related Persons have disclosed material information in their possession. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Loan Parties and their respective Subsidiaries, and all applicable bank or other regulatory Laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and made its own decision to enter into this Agreement, to extend credit to the Company and to extend credit to any Designated Borrower, which credit is supported by the Company Guaranty. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigations as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of each Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of any of the Loan Parties or any of their respective Affiliates which may come into the possession of any Agent-Related Person.
9.06 Credit Decision; Disclosure of Information by Administrative Agent
Section 2.14(c)
. Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Lenders shall indemnify upon demand each Agent-Related Person (to the extent not reimbursed by or on behalf of any Loan Party and without limiting the obligation of any Loan Party to do so), pro rata, and hold harmless each Agent-Related Person from and against any and all Indemnified Liabilities incurred by it; , , that no Lender shall be liable for the payment to any Agent-Related Person of any portion of such Indemnified Liabilities to the extent determined in a final, nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agent-Related Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct; , , that no action taken in accordance with the directions of the Required Lenders shall be deemed to constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct for purposes of this Section. Without limitation of the
9.07 Indemnification of Administrative Agent
provided
however
provided
however
 
foregoing, each Lender shall reimburse the Administrative Agent upon demand for its ratable share of any costs or out-of-pocket expenses (including Attorney Costs) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any document contemplated by or referred to herein, to the extent that the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by or on behalf of the Company. The undertaking in this Section shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, the payment of all other Obligations and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
. UBS and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates as though UBS were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Lenders. The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, UBS or its Affiliates may receive information regarding any Loan Party or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Loan Party or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that the Administrative Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans, UBS shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include UBS in its individual capacity.
9.08 Administrative Agent in its Individual Capacity
. The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent resigns under this Agreement, the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor administrative agent for the Lenders, which successor administrative agent shall be consented to by the Company at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent of the Company shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no successor administrative agent is appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may appoint, after consulting with the Lenders and the Company, a successor administrative agent from among the Lenders. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as successor administrative agent hereunder, the Person acting as such successor administrative agent shall succeed to all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the term "Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor administrative agent and the retiring Administrative Agent's appointment, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of any other Lender. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this and and shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement. If no successor administrative agent has accepted appointment as Administrative Agent by the date which is 30 days following a retiring Administrative Agent's notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Lenders shall perform all of the duties of the Administrative
9.09 Successor Administrative Agent
Article IX
Sections 10.04
10.05
 
Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above.
. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.10 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.09
11.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
11.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
. None of the Lenders or other Persons identified on the facing page or signature pages of this Agreement as a "syndication agent," "documentation agent," "lead arranger" or "book manager," shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than, in the case of such Lenders, those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Lenders or other Persons so identified shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any of the Lenders or other Persons so identified in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
9.11 Other Agents; Arrangers and Managers
 
. The Company hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all Obligations of each Designated Borrower now or hereafter existing under or in respect of the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing Obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees, indemnities, contract causes of action, costs, expenses or otherwise (such Obligations being the ""), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, Attorney Costs) incurred by the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party in enforcing any rights under this Company Guaranty or any other Loan Document. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any Designated Borrower to any Lender Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law involving such Designated Borrower.
10.01 Guaranty
Guaranteed Obligations
. The Company guarantees that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents, regardless of any Law now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of any Lender Party with respect thereto. The Obligations of the Company under or in respect of this Company Guaranty are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the Company to enforce this Company Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against any applicable Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party or whether such Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party is joined in any such action or actions. This Company Guaranty is an absolute and unconditional guaranty of payment when due, and not of collection, by the Company of the Guaranteed Obligations. The liability of the Company under this Company Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and the Company hereby irrevocably waives any setoffs, counterclaims or defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following:
10.02 Guaranty Absolute
(a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Loan Document, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise;
 
(c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of, or consent to departure from, any other guaranty, for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(d) any manner of application of any collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Obligations of any Loan Party under the Loan Documents or any other assets of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries;
(e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting any applicable Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any Guaranteed Obligation;
(f) the existence of any claim, set-off or other right which the Company may have at any time against any Designated Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection herewith or any unrelated transaction;
(g) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against any applicable Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party for any reason of the whole or any provision of any Loan Document, or any provision of applicable Law purporting to prohibit the payment or performance by any applicable Loan Party of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(h) any failure of any Lender Party to disclose to any Loan Party any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party now or hereafter known to such Lender Party (the Company waiving any duty on the part of the Lender Parties to disclose such information);
(i) the failure of any other Person to execute or deliver any other guaranty or agreement or the release or reduction of liability of any such other guarantor or surety with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations; or
(j) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) whatsoever (in any case, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by any Lender Party that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable defense available to, or a discharge of, the Company, any other Loan Party or surety.
This Company Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any Lender Party or any other Person upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization under any applicable Debtor Relief Law of any applicable Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
 
.
10.03 Waivers and Acknowledgments
(a) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for performance, notice of nonperformance, default, acceleration, protest or dishonor and any other notice with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and this Company Guaranty and any requirement that any Lender Party protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against any Loan Party or any other Person or any collateral.
(i) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right to revoke this Company Guaranty and acknowledges that this Company Guaranty is continuing in nature and applies to all Guaranteed Obligations, whether existing now or in the future.
(ii) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by any Lender Party that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of the Company or other rights of the Company to proceed against any of the other Loan Parties or any other Person or any collateral and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the Obligations of the Company under this Company Guaranty.
(iii) The Company acknowledges that the Administrative Agent may, without notice to or demand upon the Company and without affecting the liability of the Company under this Company Guaranty, foreclose under any mortgage as may secure any Obligation by nonjudicial sale, and the Company hereby waives any defense to the recovery by the Administrative Agent and the other Lender Parties against the Company of any deficiency after such nonjudicial sale and any defense or benefits that may be afforded by applicable Law.
(iv) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any duty on the part of any Lender Party to disclose to the Company any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries now or hereafter known by such Lender Party.
(v) The Company acknowledges that it will receive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Loan Documents and that the waivers set forth in and this are knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
Section 11.02
Section 11.03
. The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees not to exercise any rights that it may now have or hereafter acquire against any applicable Designated Borrower, or any other insider guarantor that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company Obligations under or in respect of this Company
10.04 Subrogation
 
Guaranty or any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of any Lender Party against such Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other insider guarantor or any collateral for the Obligations, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from such Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other insider guarantor, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right, unless and until the date (the "") which is the later of (a) the date of the termination of the Availability Period and (b) the date of the indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations in cash. If any amount shall be paid to the Company in violation of the immediately preceding sentence at any time prior to the Termination Date, such amount shall be received and held in trust for the benefit of the Lender Parties, shall be segregated from other property and funds of the Company and shall forthwith be paid or delivered to the Administrative Agent in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement or assignment) to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Company Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents, or to be held as collateral for any Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Company Guaranty thereafter arising. If the Termination Date shall have occurred, the Administrative Agent will, at the Company's request and expense, execute and deliver to the Company appropriate documents, without recourse and without representation or warranty, necessary to evidence the transfer by subrogation to the Company of an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from such payment made by the Company pursuant to this Company Guaranty.
Termination Date
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
11.01
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
(a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
 
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of any Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
provided
however
(e) change , , or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments or commitment reductions required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.06
Section 2.12(a)
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
(f) amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 1.07
(g) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
(h) release the Company from the Company Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii)  may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that (x) the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) , , and may not be changed in any manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the consent of such Lender.
provided further
Section 11.07(h)
Section 2.06
Section 2.12(a)
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
.
11.02
Notices and Other Communications; Facsimile Copies
(a) . Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission). All such written notices shall be mailed, faxed or delivered to the applicable address, facsimile number or (subject to subsection (c) below) electronic mail address, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
General
(i) if to the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties; and
Schedule 11.02
 
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent.
All such notices and other communications shall be deemed to be given or made upon the earlier to occur of (A) actual receipt by the relevant party hereto and (B) (1) if delivered by hand or by courier, when signed for by or on behalf of the relevant party hereto; (2) if delivered by mail, four Business Days after deposit in the mails, postage prepaid; (3) if delivered by facsimile, when sent and receipt has been confirmed by telephone; and (4) if delivered by electronic mail (which form of delivery is subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below), when delivered as provided in subsection (b) below; , , that notices and other communications to the Administrative Agent pursuant to shall not be effective until actually received by such Person. In no event shall a voicemail message be effective as a notice, communication or confirmation hereunder.
provided
however
Article II
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR
The Platform
 
OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company and, the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
(e) .The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify each Agent-Related Person and each Lender from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
. No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
11.03
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
. The Company agrees (a) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development, preparation, negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any amendment, waiver, consent or other modification of the provisions hereof
11.04 Costs and Expenses
 
and thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby are consummated), and the consummation and administration of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including all Attorney Costs and the fees and expenses of ClearPar, and (b) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent and each Lender for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement, attempted enforcement, or preservation of any rights or remedies under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (including all such costs and expenses incurred during any "workout" or restructuring in respect of the Obligations and during any legal proceeding, including any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law), including all Attorney Costs. The foregoing costs and expenses shall include all search, filing, recording, title insurance and appraisal charges and fees and recording, documentary and similar taxes related thereto, and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the cost of independent public accountants and other outside experts retained by the Administrative Agent or any Lender. All amounts due under this shall be paid promptly and, in any case under clause (b) of this , within 20 Business Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this Section shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations.
Section 11.04
Section 11.04
. Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each Agent-Related Person, each Lender and their respective Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, counsel, agents and attorneys-in-fact (collectively the "") from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, claims, demands, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses and disbursements (including Attorney Costs) of any kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any such Indemnitee in any way relating to or arising out of or in connection with (a) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (b) any Commitment or Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (c) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory (including any investigation of, preparation for, or defense of any pending or threatened claim, investigation, litigation or proceeding) and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto (all the foregoing, collectively, the ""); that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, claims, demands, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. No Indemnitee shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of any information or other materials obtained through IntraLinks, SyndTrak or other similar information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement, nor shall any Indemnitee have any liability for any indirect or consequential damages relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or arising out of its activities in connection herewith or therewith (whether before or after the Closing Date). All amounts due under this shall be payable within 20 Business Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the
11.05 Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitees
Indemnified Liabilities
provided
Section 11.05
 
Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment.
11.06 Payments Set Aside
.
11.07 Successors and Assigns
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) or (i) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Indemnitees) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lender
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this , the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
Section 11.07
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth on ; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any
Assignment and Assumption
Schedule 11.07
provided
however
 
assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Company
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vii) . No such assignment shall be made to a Person that, through its Lending Offices, is not capable of lending the applicable Alternative Currencies to the relevant Borrowers without the imposition of any additional Taxes.
No Assignment Resulting in Additional Taxes
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this , from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be (A) entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment and (B) subject to obligations in and ). Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this . An Eligible Assignee of a Lender shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than such Lender would have been entitled to receive as of the date such Eligible Assignee became a party to this Agreement; , , that this limitation shall not apply to any Eligible Assignee designated by the Company pursuant to ; and , , that this limitation shall also not apply with respect to Loans to Borrowers not a party to this Agreement as of the date such Eligible Assignee became a party to this Agreement.
Section 11.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
11.04
11.05
Section 3.01(e)
(f)
Section 11.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
provided
however
Section 11.16
provided
further
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the
Register
 
contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries ) (each, a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this , each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this . To the extent permitted by Law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participations
Section 11.01
Section 11.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 11.07
Section 11.09
provided
Section 2.13
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant's Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 11.15
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g) . The words "," "," "," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of
Electronic Execution of Assignments
execution
signed
signature
 
a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state Laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; provided that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement (including its obligations under and ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $2,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Special Purpose Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
Section 2.12(c)(ii)
Sections 3.01
3.04
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender that is a Fund may create a security interest in all or any portion of the Loans owing to it and the Note, if any, held by it to the trustee for holders of obligations owed, or securities issued, by such Fund as security for such obligations or securities, provided that unless and until such trustee actually becomes a Lender in compliance with the other provisions of this , (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Lender from any of its obligations under the Loan Documents and (ii) such trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Lender under the Loan Documents even though such trustee may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise.
Section 11.07
 
(j) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, a Granting Lender may grant to an Affiliate of such Granting Lender identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company (a "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to a Designated Borrower not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof pursuant to this Agreement; , , that if a Designated Affiliate elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any Designated Affiliate nor the exercise by any Designated Affiliate of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement (including its obligations under and ), (ii) no Designated Affiliate shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes (other than the funding of Loans to such Designated Borrower), including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by a Designated Affiliate hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Designated Affiliate may with notice to, but without prior consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $2,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender.
Designated Affiliates
Designated Affiliate
provided
however
Section 2.12(c)(ii)
Sections 3.01
3.04
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable Laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this , to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the prior written consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company; , , that the source of such information was not known by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Affiliate, as the
11.08 Confidentiality
Section 11.08
Section 11.08
provided
however
 
case may be, to be bound by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or contractual obligation of confidentiality with respect to such information.
For purposes of this , "" means all information received from any Loan Party relating to any Loan Party or any of its businesses, other than any such information that is publicly available or otherwise available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Loan Party; , , that the source of such information was not known by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, to be bound by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or contractual obligation of confidentiality with respect to such information. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
Section 11.08
Information
provided
however
. In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to the Company or any other Loan Party, any such notice being waived by the Company (on its own behalf and on behalf of each Loan Party) to the fullest extent permitted by Law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held by, and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of the respective Loan Parties against any and all Obligations owing to such Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document, now or hereafter existing, irrespective of whether or not the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall have made demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such Obligations may be contingent or unmatured or denominated in a currency different from that of the applicable deposit or indebtedness or are owed to a branch or office of or such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this are in addition to their other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
11.09
Set-off
Section 11.09
provided
however
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In determining whether the
11.10
Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
 
interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
11.11
Counterparts
Section 4.01
. This Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, comprises the complete and integrated agreement of the parties on the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral, on such subject matter. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement. Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof.
11.12
Integration
provided
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Borrowing, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
11.13
Survival of Representations and Warranties
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The
11.14
Severability
 
invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
. (a) (i) Each Lender that is not a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a "") shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, prior to receipt of any payment subject to withholding under the Code (or upon accepting an assignment of an interest herein), two duly signed completed copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Foreign Lender and entitling it to an exemption from, or reduction of, withholding tax on all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement) or IRS Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement) or such other evidence satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent that such Foreign Lender is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding tax, including any exemption pursuant to Section 881(c) of the Code. Thereafter and from time to time, each such Foreign Lender shall (A) promptly submit to the Administrative Agent such additional duly completed and signed copies of one of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may then be available under then current United States laws and regulations to avoid, or such evidence as is satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent of any available exemption from or reduction of, United States withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement, (B) promptly notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (C) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Foreign Lender.
11.15
Tax Forms
Foreign Lender
(ii) Each Foreign Lender, to the extent it does not act or ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any sums paid or payable to such Lender under any of the Loan Documents (for example, in the case of a typical participation by such Lender), shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the date when such Foreign Lender ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any such sums paid or payable, and at such other times as may be necessary in the determination of the Administrative Agent (in the reasonable exercise of its discretion), (A) two duly signed completed copies of the forms or statements required to be provided by such Lender as set forth above, to establish the portion of any such sums paid or payable with respect to which such Lender acts for its own account that is not subject to U.S. withholding tax, and (B) two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-8IMY (or any successor thereto), together with any information such Lender chooses to transmit with such form, and any other certificate or statement of exemption required under the Code, to establish that such Lender is not acting for its own account with respect to a portion of any such sums payable to such Lender.
 
(iii) No Borrower shall be required to indemnify any Foreign Lender or to pay any additional amount to any Foreign Lender under , (A) with respect to any Taxes required to be deducted or withheld on the basis of the information, certificates or statements of exemption such Lender transmits with an IRS Form W-8IMY pursuant to this , (B) if such Lender shall have failed to satisfy the foregoing provisions of this ; that if such Lender shall have satisfied the requirement of this on the date such Lender became a Lender and any date such Lender has ceased to act for its own account with respect to any payment under any of the Loan Documents, nothing in this shall relieve any Borrower of its obligation to pay any amounts pursuant to in the event that, as a result of any change in any applicable law, treaty or governmental rule, regulation or order, or any change in the official interpretation, administration or application thereof, such Lender is no longer properly entitled to deliver forms, certificates or other evidence at a subsequent date establishing the fact that such Lender or other Person for the account of which such Lender receives any sums payable under any of the Loan Documents is not subject to withholding or is subject to withholding at a reduced rate, (C) if the obligation to withhold or to pay such additional amounts existed under the Laws of the United States on the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement, (D) with respect to any SPC, to the extent provided in , (E) with respect to any Participant, to the extent provided in , (F) with respect to any Eligible Assignee, to the extent provided in , or (G) if the obligation to indemnify or pay such additional amounts arose after the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement and is in respect of any payment under this Agreement made by the Company (or any other Borrower which is a Domestic Subsidiary and which became a party to this Agreement prior to the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement), for any reason other than a change in any applicable law, rule, regulation or order of the United States or any subdivision thereof or any change in the official interpretation administration or application thereof after the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement.
Section 3.01
Section 11.15(a)
Section 11.15(a)
provided
Section 11.15(a)
Section 11.15(a)
Section 3.01
Section 11.07(h)
Section 11.07(e)
Section 11.07(b)
(iv) The Administrative Agent may, without reduction, withhold any Taxes required to be deducted and withheld from any payment under any of the Loan Documents with respect to which any Borrower is not required to pay additional amounts under or this .
Section 3.01
Section 11.15(a)
(b) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Administrative Agent two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is not subject to back-up withholding. If such Lender fails to deliver such forms, then the Administrative Agent may withhold from any interest payment to such Lender an amount equivalent to the applicable back-up withholding tax imposed by the Code, without reduction.
(c) If any Governmental Authority asserts that the Administrative Agent did not properly withhold or backup withhold, as the case may be, any tax or other amount from payments made to or for the account of any Lender, such Lender shall indemnify the
 
Administrative Agent therefor, including all penalties and interest, any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on the amounts payable to the Administrative Agent under this Section, and costs and expenses (including Attorney Costs) of the Administrative Agent. The obligation of the Lenders under this Section shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall provide the Company with a copy of any forms or other documents provided by any Lender to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and this .
Section 3.01(e)
Section 11.15
. Under any circumstances set forth herein providing that the Company shall have the right to replace a Lender as a party to this Agreement, the Company may, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, replace such Lender by causing such Lender to assign and delegate all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (with the assignment fee to be paid by the Company in such instance) pursuant to to one or more other Lenders or Eligible Assignees procured by the Company that shall assume such obligations; , , that (a) if the Company elects to exercise such right with respect to any Lender pursuant to , it shall be obligated to replace all Lenders that have made similar requests for compensation pursuant to or ; (b) in the case of any Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, no such assignment shall be required other than on the last day of the applicable Interest Period for such Loans, unless the affected Lenders consent thereto; and (c) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to all principal, accrued interest, accrued fees and other amounts owing to such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents through the date of replacement (including any amounts payable pursuant to ); and the Company shall release such Lender from its obligations under the Loan Documents. Any Lender being replaced shall execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption with respect to such Lender's Commitment and outstanding Loans.
11.16
Replacement of Lenders
Section 11.07(b)
provided
however
Section 3.06(b)
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.05
.
11.17
Governing Law
(a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE; PROVIDED THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
(b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK CITY OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF SUCH STATE, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND LENDERS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS. EACH BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER
 
IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF , WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR OTHER DOCUMENT RELATED THERETO. EACH BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE.
FORUM NON CONVENIENS
. EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING UNDER ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THE DEALINGS OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OF THEM WITH RESPECT TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING, AND WHETHER FOUNDED IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE; AND EACH PARTY HEREBY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY, AND THAT ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS SECTION WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE SIGNATORIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
11.18
Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
. If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary for any Lender Party to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures such Lender Party could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to such Lender Party hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender Party of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, such Lender Party may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender Party from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender Party against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to such Lender Party in such currency, such Lender Party agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
11.19 Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
.In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the
11.20 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
credit facility provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, and each Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and the Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrowers with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or the Arranger has advised or is currently advising any Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to any Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and each Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. Each Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the Act.
11.21
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
Each Lender hereby confirms that it has not relied upon any Margin Stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as collateral in extending or maintaining its Commitment hereunder.
11.22 Margin Stock.
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 


