FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20070124190200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 25, 2007, Danaher Corporation issued a press release announcing earnings for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by Danaher pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 24, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
DANAHER REPORTS RECORD RESULTS FOR FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C., January 25, 2007  Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) today announced results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2006 were $323.7 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, a 28.5% increase compared with $251.7 million, or $0.78 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2005.
Fourth quarter 2006 net earnings included approximately $0.05 per diluted share of net tax benefits primarily related to the reduction in income tax provision due to a change in German tax law which entitles Danaher to cash payments in lieu of certain previously-held tax credits. The comparison of fourth quarter 2006 net earnings to the comparable period in 2005 is also impacted by a charge related to a litigation settlement of approximately $0.03 per diluted share incurred in the fourth quarter of 2005, and by the fact that the 2005 results do not include stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.03 per diluted share that would have been recorded had Danaher expensed stock options in 2005.
Sales for the 2006 fourth quarter were $2,660.3 million compared to $2,263.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2005, an increase of 17.5%.
Net earnings for the full year 2006 were $1,122 million, or $3.48 per diluted share, compared with $898 million, or $2.76 per diluted share for 2005, an increase of 25%. Included in 2006 results were an after-tax gain of approximately $0.03 per diluted share related to the sale of an interest in shares of First Technology PLC and the after-tax gain of approximately $0.16 per diluted share from certain tax reserve reductions recorded in the first half of 2006, as well as the approximately $0.05 per diluted share fourth quarter net tax benefits noted above. The comparison of 2006 net earnings to 2005 results is also impacted by items aggregating to a net gain of approximately $0.01 per share realized in 2005, and by the fact that the 2005 results do not include stock option expense of approximately $0.09 per share that would have been recorded had Danaher expensed stock options in 2005.
Attached is a reconciliation that shows the Company's adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share for each period, adjusted to exclude the items noted above.
Sales for 2006 were $9,596.4 million compared to $7,984.7 million in 2005, an increase of 20%.
The Company also announced today that it has expanded its reporting to four segments. The four segments are Medical Technologies, Professional Instrumentation, Industrial Technologies and Tools and Components. The Medical Technologies business, previously included within the Professional Instrumentation segment, will now stand alone as its own reporting segment. Professional Instrumentation will still include our Electronic Test and Environmental businesses, while the Industrial Technologies and Tools and Components segments remain unchanged.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are pleased to once again report record fourth quarter and full year results. For the quarter, growth from existing businesses, also known as core revenues, increased 5.5%. Operating cash flow for the year was a record $1.5 billion, representing a 29% increase over 2005. Our record performance throughout 2006, and our strong finish to the year, gives us confidence in our ability to deliver positive results in 2007."
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer, specializing in Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies and Tools and Components (
www.danaher.com
).
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statement regarding expectations for 2007 and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, may be "forward-looking" statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, competition, our ability to develop and successfully market new products and technologies, our ability to expand our business in new geographic markets, our ability to identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property matters, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our ability to achieve projected efficiencies, cost reductions, sales growth and earnings, economic conditions in the end-markets we sell into, commodity costs and surcharges, currency exchange rates, tax audits, and general domestic and international economic conditions. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Third Quarter 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statement.
Please contact:
Andy Wilson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Danaher Corporation
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 828-0850
Fax: (202) 828-0860
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
This information is presented for reference only. Final audited financial statements will include footnotes, which should be referenced when available, to more fully understand the contents of this information.
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31 (in thousands)
 
This information is presented for reference only. Final audited financial statements will include footnotes, which should be referenced when available, to more fully understand the contents of this information.
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Year Ended December 31 (in thousands)
 
This information is presented for reference only. Final audited financial statements will include footnotes, which should be referenced when available, to more fully understand the contents of this information.
DANAHER CORPORATION and SUBSIDIARIES
Segment Information
Three Months and Year Ended December 31, 2006
(in thousands, unaudited)
2006 Segment Presentation
Sales
 
This information is presented for reference only. Final audited financial statements will include footnotes, which should be referenced when available, to more fully understand the contents of this information.
Danaher Corporation
Supplemental Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Net Earnings per Diluted Share
Three Months and Year Ended December 31, 2006
 
NOTE: In addition to the results provided in this release in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the non-GAAP measure of adjusted diluted earnings per share (the "non-GAAP measure") which compares diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 to diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 on a basis which:
 
 
 
The non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, diluted earnings per share calculated according to GAAP. Danaher's non-GAAP measure may be defined differently than similar non-GAAP measures that are used by other companies.
Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, provide a more complete understanding of Danaher's performance compared to previous periods and forecasts, and helps identify underlying trends in Danaher's business. We believe that adjusting diluted earnings per share for the 2005 period to include stock-based compensation expense helps to provide a better understanding of actual year-over-year changes in the business (as opposed to changes in accounting treatment between years). The other items that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measure are items that occur with inconsistent frequency and for reasons that may be unrelated to Danaher's commercial performance during the period.
Danaher management references the non-GAAP measure in assessing current performance and making decisions about internal budgets, resource allocation and financial goals for its business units. Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure helps investors and others, if they so choose, in understanding and evaluating Danaher's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does. In addition, Danaher believes that analysts and others in the investment community use the non-GAAP measure to assess Danaher's performance, identify trends in Danaher's performance and provide estimates of future performance.
A general limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that use of the non-GAAP measure (as compared to the related GAAP measure) may reduce comparability with other companies who may calculate similar non-GAAP measures differently. Another limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that it does not include all items of income and expense that affect Danaher's operations (and includes expenses that did not affect Danaher's operations), and excludes items of income or expense that may recur in the course of Danaher's business (though at times and in amounts that may be difficult to predict). Danaher management compensates for these and other limitations of the non-GAAP measure by also considering Danaher's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
The Company also provides in the release the non-GAAP measure of adjusted net earnings. The explanation set forth in this note also applies to the non-GAAP measure of adjusted net earnings.
This information is presented for reference only. Final audited financial statements will include footnotes, which should be referenced when available, to more fully understand the contents of this information.


