FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20070216174122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Airplane Management Agreements
On February 15, 2007, FJ900, Inc. ("FJ900"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Danaher Corporation ("Danaher"), entered into an airplane management agreement with Joust Capital, LLC ("Joust One") and an identical agreement with Joust Capital II, LLC ("Joust Two" and together with Joust One, the "Joust entities"). The Joust entities are owned by Steven M. Rales, executive Chairman of the Board of Danaher, and Mitchell P. Rales, executive Chairman of the Executive Committee of Danaher. The management agreements memorialize an arrangement currently in place between Danaher and Joust One and expand the arrangement to include Joust Two. The description of the management agreements set forth below is qualified in its entirety by reference to the management agreement set forth as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Under the management agreements, FJ900 will perform management services for the respective aircraft owned or leased by each of Joust One and Joust Two in like manner to the management services provided by FJ900 for the Danaher aircraft. The management services provided by FJ900 include the provision of aircraft management, pilot services, maintenance, record-keeping and other aviation services. FJ900 receives no compensation for its services under the agreement. Having FJ900 perform management services for all three aircraft enables Danaher and the Joust entities to share certain fixed expenses relating to the use, maintenance, storage, operation and supervision of their respective aircraft and utilize joint purchasing or joint bargaining arrangements where appropriate, allowing each party to benefit from efficiencies of scale and cost savings.
Under the agreement, FJ900 prorates all shared expenses annually among the Joust entities and Danaher based on total flight hours logged. The Joust entities pre-pay FJ900 on a quarterly basis for their estimated, prorated portion of such shared expenses, and the amounts are trued up at the end of the year. Each Joust entity pays directly all expenses attributable to its aircraft that are not shared.
Under the management agreements, each party is required to maintain a prescribed amount of comprehensive aviation liability insurance and name the other party and its affiliates as additional named insureds, while the Joust entities must also maintain all-risk hull insurance for their aircraft. If either party suffers any losses in connection with the arrangements set forth in the management agreement, and such losses are due to the fault, negligence, breach or strict liability of the other party, the sole recourse of the party incurring the loss against the other party is to the available insurance proceeds. Each of the management agreements has a term of five years, but may be terminated by either party upon 30 days notice.
Interchange Agreements
On February 15, 2007, Danaher entered into an airplane interchange agreement with Joust One and an identical agreement with Joust Two. The interchange agreements also memorialize an arrangement currently in place between Danaher and Joust One and expand the arrangement to include Joust Two. The description of the interchange agreements set forth below is qualified in its entirety by reference to the interchange agreement set forth as Exhibit 10.2 hereto.
Under each interchange agreement, the Joust entity has agreed to lease its aircraft to Danaher and Danaher has agreed to lease the Danaher aircraft to the Joust entity, in each case on a non-exclusive, equal time basis. Neither party is charged for its use of the other party's aircraft, the intent being that over the life of the contract each party's usage of the other party's aircraft will be generally equal.
The owner of each aircraft, as operator of the aircraft, is responsible for providing a flight crew for all flights operated under the interchange agreement. Each owner/operator is required to maintain standard insurance, including all-risk hull insurance and a prescribed amount of comprehensive aviation liability insurance, and to name the other party and its affiliates as additional named insureds. With respect to any losses suffered by the party using the owner/operator's plane in connection with use of such plane, the using party's recourse against the owner/operator is limited to the amount of available insurance proceeds. To the extent the using party or any third party suffers losses in connection with the using party's use of the owner/operator's aircraft, and recovers from the owner/operator an amount in excess of the available insurance proceeds, the using party will indemnify the
owner/operator for all such excess amounts. Each of the interchange agreements has a term of five years, but may be terminated by either party upon 10 days notice.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 15, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Management Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into as of February 15, 2007, by and among Joust Capital, LLC ("Joust One"), a Maryland limited liability company whose address is 1061 Mt. Airy Road, Davidsonville, Maryland 21035, and FJ900, Inc. ("Manager"), a Delaware corporation whose address is 23411 Autopilot Drive, Suite 217, Dulles, Virginia 20166.
, Joust One owns a Dassault Falcon 900B aircraft bearing Manufacturing Serial Number 176 and Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") Registration Number N909PM (the "Aircraft"); and
WHEREAS
, Joust One desires Manager to provide aircraft management, pilot services, maintenance and other aviation services (the "Services") to Joust One to allow Joust One to conduct operations pursuant to Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR") Part 91 under Joust One's operational control pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Joust One hereby engages Manager, and Manager agrees, to provide aviation support services for the operation of the Aircraft at the direction of Joust One, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Engagement.
2. As compensation for the services to be provided by Manager pursuant to this Agreement, Joust One agrees to pay or cause to be paid to Manager the amounts described in Section 5 hereof and all other amounts payable by Joust One to Manager pursuant to the terms hereof.
Compensation.
3. On behalf of Joust One, Manager shall, in accordance with all applicable FAR and federal, state, foreign and local statutes, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders and consistent with all applicable manuals, related guidance material and insurance safety requirements, employ, train, supervise, and provide to Joust One for its use on and in connection with the Aircraft pilots, cabin attendants, and maintenance personnel. On behalf of Joust One, Manager shall, in accordance with all applicable FAR and federal, state, foreign and local statutes, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders and consistent with all applicable manuals, related guidance material and insurance safety requirements: (1) provide, contract for, and supervise maintenance of the Aircraft, (2) secure, as agent for Joust One, all required authority for operation of the Aircraft, (3) provide logbook, recordkeeping, reporting, budgeting and other administrative services, (4) schedule and arrange dispatch for the Aircraft as requested by Joust One, and (5) maintain, store, and supervise the Aircraft in a careful and proper manner.
Services Provided.
In addition, Manager shall assist Joust One in the performance of any obligations under any interchange or time share arrangement for the Aircraft entered into by Joust One, in each case as specifically requested by Joust One and in accordance with the FAR. In addition, Manager shall provide recordkeeping related to Aircraft use pursuant to such agreements as requested by Joust One and in accordance with the FAR.
4. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") shall commence on the date hereof and shall terminate five years from that date unless it is earlier terminated pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Term
.
5.
Expenses.
A. . Manager, as agent for Joust One shall record all bills and assessments for expenses attributable to the Aircraft, including without limitation, expenses in connection with services, supplies, fuel, landing fees, use, maintenance, operation, storage, supervision and management, in each case to the extent such expenses are not shared pursuant to Section 5(B). It is agreed and acknowledged that Joust One will pay such bills and assessments when due and payable. However, in the event Manager pays a bill or assessment on behalf of Joust One, Joust One will promptly reimburse Manager for such bill or assessment upon receipt of appropriate documentation thereof.
Non-Shared Expenses
B. . The parties agree and acknowledge that Joust One has agreed where feasible and upon mutual determination among Joust One and certain other aircraft operators for whom Manager provides aircraft management services (collectively, the "Participating Aircraft Operators"), such Participating Aircraft Operators shall share the expenses relating to the use, maintenance, operation, storage, supervision, and management of their aircraft on the basis set forth on Schedule A. Manager shall facilitate such sharing and shall record all bills and assessments for all expenses shared by the Participating Aircraft Operators.
Shared Expenses
C. . The parties further agree and acknowledge that with respect to the expenses, and in accordance with Schedule A, Joust One and Manager will where feasible and upon agreement with the other Participating Aircraft Operators, seek to utilize joint purchasing or collective bargaining arrangements in order to obtain the benefit of discounted pricing.
Joint Bargaining
6. Joust One shall be responsible for any and all taxes assessed related to the ownership, use, maintenance, operation, storage, supervision, and management of the Aircraft.
Taxes.
7. Manager shall arrange for and furnish to Joust One a fully qualified flight crew for the operation by Joust One of its Aircraft for the duration of this Agreement. Joust One specifically agrees that the flight crew supplied by Manager for the Aircraft will be under the exclusive command and control of Joust One in all phases of flight and at all times. The flight crew shall have full and exclusive authority to exercise all of its duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted by Joust One in accordance with all applicable FAR. Joust One specifically agrees that the flight crew, in its sole discretion,
Provision of Pilots.
 
may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take other action which in the considered judgment of the pilot in command is necessitated by considerations of safety. No such action of the pilot in command shall create or support any liability for loss, injury or damage to Joust One, or any other person. Joust One further agrees that Manager shall not be liable for any delay or failure to furnish or return the Aircraft or crew when such failure is caused by government regulation or authority, mechanical difficulty, war, civil commotion, strikes or labor disputes, weather conditions, or acts of God.
8. . Requests for scheduling shall be in a form, whether oral or written, mutually convenient to, and agreed upon by, the parties. Joust One shall provide the following scheduling and flight time information to Manager for each proposed flight, as early as possible:
Responsibilities With Respect to Scheduling
A. proposed departure point;
B. destination;
C. date and time of departure or arrival;
D. the number of anticipated passengers;
E. the names, nationality, and affiliation of each anticipated passenger;
F. the nature and extent of luggage and/or cargo to be carried;
G. the date and time of a return flight, if any; and
H. any other information concerning the proposed flight that may be pertinent or required by Manager or the flight crew.
9. .
Flight Operations
A. . During all phases of flight conducted with the Aircraft, Joust One shall retain and have operational control of its aircraft and exclusive possession, command, and control of its Aircraft. Except with regard to decisions made by the pilot in command as necessitated by safety considerations or governmental restrictions or regulations, Joust One shall determine when the Aircraft shall be operated, where it shall be operated, and the passengers and/or cargo which shall be carried.
Operational Control
B. . Joust One will use the Aircraft only for purposes expressly permitted by Part 91, of the FAR. In connection with the use and operation of the Aircraft, Joust One shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable FAR.
Purpose of Flight
10. .
Maintenance Responsibilities
A. . Manager shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft.
Maintenance Responsibility
B. . All maintenance on the Aircraft will be done by FAA authorized personnel and shall comply with all laws, ordinances, rules,
Authorized Maintenance Providers
 
regulations, insurance requirements, mandatory service bulletins issued or supplied by the manufacturer, and all FAA Airworthiness Directives.
C. . All maintenance when completed shall be sufficient to maintain the airworthiness certification of the Aircraft at all times.
Airworthiness
D. . No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Scheduling Flights
11. During normal business hours, Joust One shall have the right to enter the premises where the Aircraft may be located for the purpose of inspecting and examining the Aircraft and its condition, use, and operation to ensure compliance by Manager with its obligations hereunder; provided, however that Joust One shall coordinate the date and time of its inspection with the Manager and, provided, further, that Joust One shall have no duty under this Agreement to inspect and shall not incur any liability or obligation by reason of not making any such inspection.
Aircraft Inspection.
12.
Recordkeeping Responsibilities.
A. . Manager shall maintain and keep accurate, complete, and current logbooks and other records regarding the operation and use of the Aircraft in accordance with applicable FAR. This shall include:
Operational Records
i. records related to take off and destination of all flights;
ii. records relating to all flight authorizations obtained for particular flights;
iii. records relating to passengers carried; and
iv. records relating to flight crew and flight and duty time.
B. . Manager shall maintain and keep accurate, complete, and current logbooks and records regarding the maintenance of the Aircraft and in accordance with applicable FAR. These shall include:
Maintenance Records
i. records relating to any and all maintenance performed on the Aircraft, including, without limitation, scheduled maintenance, repairs, modifications, scheduled inspections, functional tests, and overhauls performed; and
ii. records relating to personnel performing any and all maintenance on the Aircraft.
C. . Manager shall maintain and keep accurate, complete, and current records relating to the calculation and payment of bills and assessments for services,
Expense Records
 
supplies, and other expenses incurred in connection with the maintenance, operation, storage, supervision, and management of the Aircraft.
D. . Such records shall be open to inspection by Joust One during normal business hours and upon reasonable prior notification to Manager.
Inspection
13. .
Insurance
A. . Throughout the Term, Joust One shall maintain insurance with respect to its aircraft covering:
Joust One Insurance
i. all-risk hull insurance with respect to such Aircraft, against any loss, theft or damage to such Aircraft, including, without limitation, extended coverage with respect to any engine or parts while removed from the Aircraft. The limits of such insurance shall be in an amount equal to the current market value of the Aircraft, or the minimum amount specified by the registered owner or lessor as may be applicable; and
ii. comprehensive aviation liability insurance with respect to the Aircraft, including, without limitation, aircraft passenger and property damage coverage, for an amount not less than Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000) single limit liability coverage and naming Manager and Manager's parent company (Danaher Corporation ("Danaher")), and Manager's and Danaher's respective subsidiaries and related companies, directors, officers, agents and employees as additional insureds.
B. . Throughout the Term, Manager shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in full force and effect, at its own expense:
Manager's Insurance
i. comprehensive aviation liability insurance with respect to the Aircraft, including, without limitation, aircraft passenger and property damage coverage, for an amount not less than Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000) single limit liability coverage and naming Joust One, Joust Group, L.L.C., Steven M. Rales and Joust One's members, subsidiaries and related companies, directors, officers, agents and employees as additional insureds.
C. . All insurance required hereunder shall provide that coverage may not be canceled by the insurer without thirty (30) days' prior written notice to each party ((10) days' prior written notice for non-payment of premium). Each party shall be furnished with insurance certificates evidencing such insurance as of the date hereof and as of each renewal date. Each party shall also be furnished with copies of the policies. Receipt of any such certificate or policy shall not constitute acceptance thereof nor waiver of Joust One's responsibilities hereunder.
Insurer's Notice
D. . All insurance required hereunder shall include waiver of subrogation rights in favor of Joust One Manager, Danaher and the other insureds and additional
Waiver
,
 
insureds. All insurance required hereunder shall also be primary without any right of contribution from any other insurance available to any other insureds or additional insureds.
 
14. .
Loss or Damage to Aircraft
A. . Manager shall immediately notify Joust One of any accident or incident connected with the Aircraft, and shall include in such report the time, place and nature of the accident or incident, the nature and extent of damage caused to property, the names and addresses of persons injured, the names and addresses of witnesses, and such other information as may be relevant to such accident or incident.
Damage Reports
"Accident and incident" mean the following, as defined in the National Transportation Safety Board ("NTSB") Regulations, 49 C.F.R.  830.2:
means an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked, and in which any person suffers death or serious injury, or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage.
Aircraft accident
means an occurrence other than an accident, associated with the operation of an aircraft, which affects or could affect the safety of operations.
Incident
B. . Following an accident or incident, Manager shall make or arrange for repair to the Aircraft only after consultation and agreement with Joust One.
Repairs
C. . In the event of an actual or constructive total loss of the Aircraft, this Agreement shall terminate, except with respect to the provisions of this Agreement regarding Insurance, Indemnification, payment of fees and expenses to Manager pursuant to Section 5, and Termination, which shall survive the total loss of the Aircraft. Manager acknowledges and agrees that any hull insurance proceeds payable solely with respect to loss of or to the Aircraft itself shall be payable to Joust One or its designee.
Total Loss
15.
Indemnification and Limitation of Damages
A.
Indemnification
.
i. It is an express condition of this Agreement that, to the extent caused by the breach of this Agreement, fault, negligence or strict liability, either by commission or omission, of Joust One or its members, officers, directors, employees, guests or agents occurring under or in connection with the performance or non-performance of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement (including, without limitation, the use, operation and/or flight of the Aircraft), Joust One will fully defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless Manager, Danaher and Manager's or Danaher's respective subsidiaries and related companies, directors, officers, agents and employees from and against any and all losses, claims, suits, damages, liabilities and causes of action of every kind, character and nature, whether in law or in equity (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and
 
investigation, litigation and court costs) arising by reason of such breach, fault, negligence or strict liability in connection with the matters covered by this Agreement.
ii. It is an express condition of this Agreement that, to the extent caused by the breach of this Agreement, fault, negligence or strict liability, either by commission or omission, of Manager, Danaher or their officers, directors, employees or agents occurring under or in connection with the performance or non-performance of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement (including, without limitation, the use, operation and/or flight of the Aircraft), Manager and Danaher will fully defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless Joust One, Joust Group, L.L.C., Steven M. Rales, Joust One's members, subsidiaries and related companies, directors, officers, agents and employees from and against any and all losses, claims, suits, damages, liabilities and causes of action of every kind, character and nature, whether in law or in equity (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and investigation, litigation and court costs) arising by reason of such breach, fault, negligence or strict liability in connection with the matters covered by this Agreement.
iii. In the event that Section 15.A.i and 15.A.ii both apply to any individual incident, or set of incidents, giving rise to an obligation to indemnify, then the indemnity obligations shall be apportioned according to the respective fault of each indemnitor and any person(s) for which any indemnitor may be liable.
B.
LIMITATION ON INDEMNITY
. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING ELSE TO THE CONTRARY IN THIS AGREEMENT. JOUST ONE AND MANAGER AGREE THAT ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR EITHER PARTY TO INDEMNIFY ANY PERSON(S) PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE STRICTLY LIMITED TO THE AVAILABLE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
C. . Neither Joust One nor Manager shall be liable to one another for any punitive, exemplary, consequential or incidental damages, including, without limitation, any damages for diminution of market value, loss of use of the Aircraft and/or loss of profits.
Waiver
D. . Obligations under this Section 15 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Continuing Obligation
The provisions of this Section will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
16. . Each party represents, warrants, and covenants that:
Representations and Warranties
i. it is a corporation or limited liability company, duly organized and existing in good standing under the laws of the state in which it is organized with the necessary power and qualifications to perform this Agreement;
 
ii. that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the party and will not contravene or breach any legal, organizational, or contractual regulation binding on such party;
iii. it is, and for the Term will be, a citizen of the United States as described in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(15);
iv. it agrees that it will do nothing to impair the registration of the Aircraft in the United States throughout the Term;
v. it shall not utilize or cause the Aircraft to be utilized for any illegal purpose or for compensation or hire, except as permitted under FAR Part 91;
vi. it shall not operate or cause the Aircraft to be operated unless appropriate insurance coverage as required by this Agreement, is in effect; and
vii. this Agreement constitutes valid, binding, and enforceable obligations of each party and is enforceable in accordance with its terms.
17.
Miscellaneous.
A. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties; it supersedes any prior agreement or understandings among them, oral or written, all of which are hereby canceled.
Entire Agreement
B. . Any notice, request or other communication to any party by any other party hereunder shall be conveyed in writing and shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date (i) personally delivered with receipt acknowledged, or (ii) telecopies at the time of transmission, or (iii) three (3) days after mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage paid and addressed to the party at the address set forth below. The address of a party to which notices or copies of notice are to be given may be changed from time to time by such party by written notice to the other parties.
Notices
 
 
C. . It is not the purpose or intention of this Agreement to create, and this Agreement shall not be considered as creating, a joint venture, partnership, or other relationship whereby any party shall be held liable for the omissions or commissions of any other party. No partnership, legal person, association, or jural entities are intended or hereby created by the parties.
No Partnership or Joint Venture
D. . The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding and enforceable upon, the respective successors, assigns and permitted transferees of the parties.
Successors and Assigns
E. . The laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the conflicts of laws rules thereof) shall govern the validity of this Agreement, the construction of its terms and interpretation of the rights and duties of the parties.
Governing Law
F. . If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unimpaired and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a mutually acceptable provision, which being valid, legal and enforceable, comes closest to the intention of the parties underlying the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability of Provisions
G. . Headings and captions used herein are inserted for reference purposes only and shall not affect the interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Headings
H. . Each party hereto shall execute and deliver all such further instruments and documents as may reasonably be requested by the other parties in order to fully carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement.
Further Assurances
I. . Each party agrees that it will not hold any shareholder, member, officer, director or employee of the other personally liable for the obligations of such other party under this Agreement.
No Liability of Shareholders/Members
J. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts which shall, singly or in the aggregate, constitute a fully executed and binding agreement.
Counterparts
 
18. . Any party may terminate this Agreement by providing the other parties thirty (30) days prior written notice of its intent to terminate this Agreement.
Termination
A. . Upon termination of this Agreement, Manager agrees to provide Joust One with the following:
Manager's Obligations
i. an accounting of all outstanding charges or costs relating to the operation and maintenance of the Aircraft;
ii. all records relating to use, operation, maintenance, storage, and supervision of the Aircraft;
iii. return of the Aircraft; and
iv. all necessary action with respect to notifying the FAA and insurance companies that Manager is no longer managing the Aircraft, as applicable.
B. . Upon termination of this Agreement, Joust One agrees to pay all outstanding charges or costs owed hereunder.
Joust One's Obligations
19. . If any claim, controversy or dispute arises among the parties hereto (a "Dispute") and such Dispute cannot be settled through negotiation, the parties shall attempt to settle the Dispute through nonbinding mediation under the then current Commercial Mediation Rules of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"). If the parties cannot settle the matter through mediation, then any Dispute shall be resolved by arbitration as provided in this paragraph. A single arbitrator shall conduct the arbitration under the AAA Rules. The arbitration shall be conducted at a location mutually agreed upon by the parties or, in the absence of such agreement, at a location selected in accordance with the AAA Rules, and all expedited procedures prescribed by the AAA Rules shall apply. Any party may request from the arbitrator injunctive relief to maintain the until such time as the arbitration award is rendered or the Dispute is otherwise resolved. The arbitrator shall not have authority to award punitive damages. Each party shall bear its own costs and attorneys' fees, and the parties shall share equally the fees and expenses of the arbitrator. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding, and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. If any party files a judicial or administrative action asserting claims subject to arbitration, as prescribed herein, and the other party successfully stays such action and/or compels arbitration of said claims, the party filing said action shall pay the other party's costs and expenses incurred in seeking such stay and/or compelling arbitration, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees.
Dispute Resolution
status quo
 
, the parties hereto have caused the signatures of their authorized representatives to be affixed below to be effective on the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
The following sets forth the specific, fixed expenses to be shared by Joust One and the other Participating Aircraft Operators on an initial basis. At any time and from time to time during the Term, the parties and the other Participating Aircraft Operators may mutually agree to share certain fixed expenses on a basis to be agreed upon by the parties, or may mutually agree to discontinue or modify any of the fixed expense sharing arrangements set forth below.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
(this "Agreement"), made and entered into by Joust Capital, LLC ("Joust One"), a Maryland limited liability company whose address is1061 Mt. Airy Road, Davidsonville, Maryland 21035, and Danaher Corporation ("Danaher"), a Delaware corporation whose address is 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., 12
THIS INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT
th
Floor, Washington, D.C. 20006, on and as of the 15
th
day of February, 2007.
Joust One owns and operates an aircraft more particularly described in hereto (such aircraft together with the engines described in , is referred to herein as the "Joust One Aircraft");
WHEREAS,
Schedule A
Schedule A
Danaher leases and operates an aircraft more particularly described in hereto (such aircraft together with the engines described in , is referred to herein as the "Danaher Aircraft" (the Joust One Aircraft and the Danaher Aircraft are sometimes referred to as the "Aircraft" or individually, an "Aircraft"); and
WHEREAS,
Schedule B
Schedule B
Joust One desires to lease the Joust One Aircraft to Danaher, and Danaher desires to lease the Danaher Aircraft to Joust One, in each case in an interchange agreement pursuant to Section 91.501(c)(2) of the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR").
WHEREAS,
the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
The term of this Agreement ("Term") shall commence on the date hereof, and shall continue for a period of five (5) years, unless either party terminates this Agreement pursuant to Sections 9 or 12 hereof.
1. Term.
2. Use of Aircraft.
Each party agrees on the terms and conditions of this Agreement to provide the use of its Aircraft for the convenience of the other party, and to operate interchange flights subject to the requirements of FAR Section 91.501(b)(6). Such use will be at the convenience of the party which operates the Aircraft (the operator of the Aircraft is hereinafter referred to as the "Operator" and the party using the Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement is hereinafter referred to as the "User"), upon request by one to the other in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Pursuant to this Agreement, which shall constitute an interchange agreement as that term is
A. Lease of Aircraft.
defined in FAR Section 91.501(c)(2), Joust One agrees to make available the Joust One Aircraft for lease on a non-exclusive, equal time, basis to Danaher, and Danaher agrees to make available the Danaher Aircraft for lease on a non-exclusive, equal time, basis to Joust One, in each case subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Regardless of who may be using an Aircraft under this Agreement, Joust One shall at all times have operational control of the Joust One Aircraft and responsibility for compliance with applicable FAR and Danaher shall at all times have operational control of the Danaher Aircraft and responsibility for compliance with applicable FAR.
B. Operational Control.
The User agrees that it will use the Operator's Aircraft only for purposes expressly permitted by Part 91 of the Federal Aviation Administration's ("FAA") regulations.
C. Purpose of Flight.
D. Scheduling Flights.
In order to schedule a flight on the Operator's Aircraft, the User shall contact the Operator's aviation manager and request use of the Operator's Aircraft for a particular date and time and include information with regard to the destination of the planned flight. The Operator's aviation manager shall determine whether the Aircraft is available for lease at that time and seek approval for the flight from the Operator. If the Aircraft is available, the Operator's aviation manager shall handle all details arising out of the User's scheduling of the Aircraft, such as filing flight plans and arranging for in flight catering. Determination of the availability of the Operator's Aircraft for lease to the User shall be left to the sole discretion of the Operator. The Operator shall have the right to cancel a proposed lease of the Aircraft by telephonic or other notice to the User at any time prior to the departure of the Aircraft at the inception of the lease. The parties acknowledge that they may each use the same aviation manager for purpose of this Section 2(D)(i).
i. Schedule Process.
The parties intend to lease their Aircraft to one another on an equal time basis.
ii. Equal Time.
a. Each and every lease under this Agreement must be approved by the Operator prior to scheduling such flight. Approval shall be at the sole discretion of the Operator. Neither party shall be obligated to make its Aircraft available to the other party for any flight under this Agreement.
 
b. For all purposes of this Agreement, a lease of an Aircraft under this Agreement shall be based on actual logged flight time, and shall include any positioning flight required by the User.
No charge, assessment or fee is to be made by either Party for its respective Aircraft use. Quarterly, the parties shall direct the aircraft manager of each Aircraft to calculate and provide a written report to each party showing the number of hours operated under this Agreement (i) during the most recently ended quarter, (ii) for the then-current calendar year-to-date and (iii) during the Term of this Agreement. If in any calendar year one party has leased the Aircraft for a greater number of hours that the other party, those hours will be carried forward into the next calendar year of this Agreement for purposes of this reconciliation.
3. Operational Expenses.
4. Flight Crew.
As is consistent with the FAR, the Operator shall provide flight crew for all flights operated under this Agreement. Such flight crew shall be duly qualified and licensed and shall exercise all of its duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted under this Agreement in accordance with applicable FAR.
A. Provision of Flight Crew.
Pilots shall exercise pilots' duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with the applicable FAR. When safety may be compromised, in the view of the pilots of either Aircraft used pursuant to this Agreement, the pilots may terminate a flight, refuse to commence a flight or take other action necessitated by safety considerations. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to abridge the authority and responsibility of the pilot-in-command as provided under pertinent FAR Part 91 regulations.
B. Pilot Duties.
The Operator shall keep accurate, complete and current, records pertaining to flight operations in compliance with FAA requirements, as well as all records kept by reasonable and prudent businesses in the normal course of operating a flight department. These records shall include flights conducted, pilot training and licensing, and any Aircraft accidents or incidents. Such records shall be available to both parties during business hours.
5. Recordkeeping.
6. Maintenance.
Each Operator shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or
A. Maintenance Standards.
 
otherwise necessary inspections on its respective Aircraft. Each Aircraft will be maintained and inspected as required by FAR Part 91.
Each Operator shall bear the cost of all maintenance performed on its Aircraft, except such additional maintenance or repair which arises out of the negligence or misconduct of the leasing User, or any other person or persons for which the User is responsible. Any maintenance or repair required because of such negligence or misconduct will be fully charged to the User to the extent such cost is not covered by insurance or a third party.
B. Cost of Maintenance.
Each Operator shall keep accurate, complete and current, maintenance records on its Aircraft in compliance with FAA requirements. These records shall include scheduled maintenance, repairs, modifications, scheduled inspections, functional tests and overhauls performed. Such records shall be available to both parties during normal business hours.
C. Maintenance Records.
The Operator shall immediately notify the User of any accident or incident connected with the use of either of the Aircraft hereunder, and shall include in such report the time, place and nature of the accident or incident, the nature and extent of damage caused to property, the names and addresses of persons injured, the names and addresses of witnesses, and such other information as may be relevant to such accident or incident.
7. Damage Reports.
8. Insurance.
Throughout the Term, each Operator shall maintain insurance with respect to its Aircraft covering:
A.
i. all-risk hull insurance with respect to such Aircraft, against any loss, theft, or damage to such Aircraft, including, without limitation, extended coverage with respect to any engine or parts while removed from the Aircraft. The User shall have no claim to the proceeds of hull insurance maintained with respect to such Aircraft and
ii. comprehensive aviation liability insurance with respect to the Operator's Aircraft, including, without limitation, aircraft passenger and property damage coverage for an amount not less than Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000) single limit liability coverage and naming the other party and each of its affiliates and their respective members, directors, officers, managers, employees and agents and such other persons as the User may reasonably request as insureds or additional insureds. Such insurance shall include waiver of subrogation rights in favor of the Operator and the other insureds and additional
 
insureds. Such insurance shall also be primary without any right of contribution from any other insurance available to any other insureds or additional insureds.
The parties agree that the insurance specified in Section 8(A) shall provide User's, User's affiliates, their respective members, directors, officers, managers, employees and agents and any person claiming by, through, or under the foregoing (collectively, the "User Parties") sole recourse for all claims, losses, liabilities, obligations, demands, suits, judgments or causes of action, penalties, fines, costs and expenses of any nature whatsoever, including attorneys' fees and expenses (each, a "Claim" and collectively, the "Claims") for or on account of, or arising out of, or in any way connected with the Operator's breach of this Agreement or possession, maintenance, storage, use or operation of the Operator's Aircraft, including injury to or death of any persons, which may result from, arise out of, or is in any way connected with the possession, maintenance, storage, use or operation of the Aircraft during the term of this Agreement.
B.
WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPERATOR OR ANY OF THE OPERATOR PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) BE LIABLE TO THE USER, ANY USER PARTIES, OR ANY OTHER THIRD PART(IES), AS THE CASE MAY BE, FOR ANY CLAIMS IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNT PAID TO SUCH USER, USER PARTIES, OR ANY OTHER THIRD PART(IES), AS APPLICABLE, BY THE OPERATOR'S INSURANCE CARRIER. TO THE EXTENT USER OR ANY OF THE USER PARTIES OR ANY THIRD PART(IES) BRING(S) A CLAIM OR CLAIMS AGAINST THE OPERATOR OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE MEMBERS, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, MANAGERS, EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS (COLLECTIVELY, THE "OPERATOR PARTIES") IN AN AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNT PAID TO SUCH PERSON(S) BY THE OPERATOR'S INSURANCE CARRIER, USER HEREBY AGREES TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS THE OPERATOR PARTIES FOR ANY SUCH AMOUNTS IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNTS PAID BY THE OPERATOR'S INSURANCE CARRIER.
C. THE OPERATOR SHALL IN NO EVENT BE LIABLE TO THE USER PARTIES FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES AND/OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES OR FOR ANY REASON INCLUDING ANY DELAY OR FAILURE TO FURNISH THE AIRCRAFT OR CAUSED OR OCCASIONED BY THE
 
PERFORMANCE OR NON-PERFORMANCE OF ANY SERVICES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
D. This Section 8 shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
9. Loss or Damage.
Each Operator shall bear the risk of loss of its own Aircraft, even while its Aircraft is being used by the User, and shall have the sole right to insurance proceeds payable under hull insurance policies maintained by it in the event of any loss or casualty occurrence.
A. Risk of Loss.
The Operator shall not be obligated to repair or replace its Aircraft after a loss or casualty occurrence. In the event of a an actual or constructive total loss of the Aircraft, this Agreement shall terminate, except with respect to the provisions of this Agreement regarding Insurance, Indemnification, and Termination, which shall survive the total loss of the Aircraft.
B. Repair or Replacement.
The User shall not directly or indirectly create or incur any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, right or claim of any kind ("Lien") on, or with respect to, the Operator's Aircraft, title thereto or any interest therein.
10. Liens.
Each party represents, warrants and covenants to the other party that:
11. Representations and Warranties.
(i) it is a corporation or limited liability company, duly organized and existing in good standing under the laws of the state in which it is organized with the necessary power and qualifications to perform this Agreement;
(ii) that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the party and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable in accordance with its terms;
(iii) it agrees that it will do nothing to impair the registration of the other party's Aircraft in the United States throughout the Term;
(iv) it shall not utilize the other party's Aircraft for any illegal purpose or for the purpose of providing air transportation of passengers or cargo, except as permitted under FAR 14 C.F.R. Part 91;
 
(v) it will abide by and conform to all such laws, governmental and airport orders, rules and regulations, as shall from time to time be in effect relating in any way to the operation and use of the other party's Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement; and
(vi) it shall not operate the Aircraft under this Agreement unless such Aircraft is in airworthy condition.
Either party may terminate this Agreement by providing the other party ten (10) days' written notice of its intent to terminate this Agreement.
12. Termination.
13. Miscellaneous.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof; it supersedes any prior agreement or understandings among them, oral or written, all of which are hereby canceled.
A. Entire Agreement.
Any notice, request or other communication to any party by any other party hereunder shall be conveyed in writing and shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date (i) personally delivered with receipt acknowledged, or (ii) telecopied at the time of transmission, or (iii) three (3) days after mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage paid and addressed to the party at the address set forth below. The address of a party to which notices or copies of notice are to be given may be changed from time to time by such party by written notice to the other parties.
B. Notices.
 
 
It is not the purpose or intention of this Agreement to create, and this Agreement shall not be considered as creating, a joint venture, partnership or other relationship whereby any party shall be held liable for the omissions or commissions of any other party. No partnership, legal person, association or jural entities are intended or hereby created by the parties.
C. No Partnership or Joint Venture.
The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding and enforceable upon, the respective successors, assigns and permitted transferees of the parties.
D. Successors and Assigns.
The laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the conflicts of laws rules thereof) shall govern the validity of this Agreement, the construction of its terms and interpretation of the rights and duties of the parties.
E. Governing Law.
If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unimpaired and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a mutually acceptable provision, which being valid, legal and enforceable, comes closest to the intention of the parties underlying the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
F. Severability of Provisions.
Headings and captions used herein are inserted for reference purposes only and shall not affect the interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
G. Headings.
Each party hereto shall execute and deliver all such further instruments and documents as may reasonably be requested by the other parties in order to fully carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement.
H. Further Assurances.
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts which shall, singly or in the aggregate, constitute a fully executed and binding agreement.
I. Counterparts.
In accordance with FAR Section 91.23:
14. Truth-in-Leasing.
The parties agree that they will provide copies and notification of this Agreement to the FAA as required by FAR Section 91.23.
A.
It is hereby stated as follows:
B.
EACH PARTY HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT ITS AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE TWELVE (12) MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT (OR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD TO THE EXTENT THE AIRCRAFT IS LESS THAN TWELVE (12) MONTHS OLD) IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91, AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN COMPLIED WITH.
JOUST ONE AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE JOUST ONE AIRCRAFT IS OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, JOUST ONE SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED AND IN FACT WILL BE THE OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT AS PROVIDED HEREIN. DANAHER AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE DANAHER AIRCRAFT IS OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, DANAHER SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED AND IN FACT WILL BE THE OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT AS PROVIDED HEREIN.
THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL AND PERTINENT FAR CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FAA FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE, GENERAL AVIATION DISTRICT OFFICE, OR AIR CARRIER DISTRICT OFFICE. EACH PARTY AGREES TO UNDERSTAND AND ABIDE BY THESE REGULATIONS.
EACH PARTY HERETO CERTIFIES THAT A TRUE COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CARRIED ON THE AIRCRAFT AT ALL TIMES, AND SHALL BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION UPON REQUEST BY AN APPROPRIATELY CONSTITUTED IDENTIFIED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE FAA.
 
 
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of this date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
including all components and accessories appurtenant to, installed in, or attached to, the airframe, of such aircraft, including the avionics and engines, together with all loose equipment associated therewith and all available manuals, maintenance records, and airframe and engine log books.
 
including all components and accessories appurtenant to, installed in, or attached to, the airframe, of such aircraft, including the avionics and engines, together with all loose equipment associated therewith and all available manuals, maintenance records, and airframe and engine log books.


