FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20070912172034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On September 12, 2007, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, restating and integrating, without further amending, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, as such Certificate of Incorporation had heretofore been restated, amended or supplemented. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which also was effective September 12, 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 12, 2007
 

Exhibit 3.1
Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation,
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
1. The name of the corporation is Danaher Corporation. The date of filing its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was October 3, 1986.
2. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by Danaher Corporation's Board of Directors on September 12, 2007 in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
3. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation only restates and integrates, and does not further amend, the provisions of Danaher Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as such Certificate of Incorporation had heretofore been restated, amended or supplemented. There is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
4. The text of the Certificate of Incorporation as restated, amended or supplemented heretofore is hereby restated without further amendments or changes to read as herein set forth in full:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Danaher Corporation.
SECOND: The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, in the city of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at that address is Corporation Service Company.
THIRD: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware as set forth in Title 8 of the Delaware Code (the "GCL").
FOURTH:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIFTH:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Certificate of Incorporation applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article FIFTH unless expressly provided by such terms.
 
SIXTH: The directors shall have concurrent power with the stockholders to make, alter, amend, change, add to or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation. In addition to the powers and authority hereinbefore or by statute expressly conferred upon them, the directors are hereby empowered to exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the statutes of Delaware, this Certificate of Incorporation, and any By-Laws adopted by the stockholders; provided, however, that no By-Laws hereafter adopted by the stockholders shall invalidate any prior act of the directors which would have been valid if such By-Laws had not been adopted.
SEVENTH: Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the By-Laws may provide. The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the statutes) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
EIGHTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between the Corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between the Corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of the equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary way of the Corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for the Corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the GCL or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for the Corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the GCL, order a meeting of the stockholders or class of stockholders of the Corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of the Corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of the Corporation as a consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of the Corporation, as the case may be, and also on the Corporation.
NINTH: The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action or proceeding (whether civil or criminal or otherwise) by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or by reason of the fact that such director or officer, at the request of the Corporation, is or was serving any other
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, in any capacity. Nothing contained herein shall affect any rights to indemnification to which employees other than directors and officers may be entitled by law. No director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duty by such a director as a director. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, a director shall be liable to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) pursuant to Section 174 of the GCL, or (iv) for any transaction from which such director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article NINTH shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment.
TENTH: The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Restated Certificate of Incorporation as of the 12
th
day of September, 2007.
 


