FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20080123175346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, Danaher Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by Danaher pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 23, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
DANAHER REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2007 RESULTS
WASHINGTON, D.C., January 24, 2008  Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) announced results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $320 million, or $0.97 per diluted share. Earnings for the period include the results of operations of Tektronix since its acquisition in November, 2007. Included in the results are certain non-cash charges related to the Tektronix acquisition for purchased in-process research and development and the fair value adjustments to recorded inventory and deferred revenue which reduced net earnings by $66 million or $0.20 per diluted share in the period. Also included in the earnings per share results are gains of approximately $0.05 per diluted share related to reductions of income tax reserves as a result of the favorable resolution of certain prior year tax items. Absent these two items, adjusted earnings per diluted share was $1.12, a 19% increase over last years' comparable adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.94.
Attached is a reconciliation of adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations calculated according to GAAP, for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2007 and the comparable prior year periods.
Sales from continuing operations for the 2007 fourth quarter were $3.1 billion, 19.5% higher than the $2.6 billion reported for the 2006 fourth quarter.
Net earnings from continuing operations for the full year 2007 were $1.2 billion, or $3.72 per diluted share. In addition to the fourth quarter 2007 items noted in the first paragraph, full year 2007 earnings per diluted share benefited from a $0.02 per diluted share gain related to the collection of indemnity proceeds and a $0.02 per diluted share gain resulting primarily from the impact of income tax rate reductions in certain international jurisdictions. Excluding these gains, as well as the other 2007 items referenced in the first paragraph, adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the 2007 full year was $3.83, an increase of 19% compared to 2006 full year adjusted earnings per diluted share. Adjusted earnings per diluted share was $3.85 including the impact of $0.02 per diluted share for discontinued operations from prior quarters. For the 2007 full year, net earnings per diluted share was $4.19 which includes the gain on the sale of the Power Quality business in July, 2007.
Sales from continuing operations for 2007 were $11 billion compared to $9.6 billion for 2006, an increase of 16.5%.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are pleased once again to report record fourth quarter and full year results. For the quarter, growth from existing businesses, also known as core revenues, increased 4.5%. Operating cash flow from continuing operations for the year was a record $1.7 billion, representing an 11% increase over 2006. Despite softness in some of our OEM and U.S. consumer facing end markets, we continue to see strength across most of our businesses and remain confident in our ability to again deliver in 2008."
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer of Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies, and Tools and Components (www.danaher.com).
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statements regarding expectations for 2008 and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, may be "forward-looking" statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, competition, our ability to develop and successfully market new products and technologies, our ability to expand our business in new geographic markets, our ability to identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property matters, our compliance with applicable laws and
 
regulations, the performance of our distribution and other channel partners, our ability to achieve projected efficiencies, cost reductions, sales growth and earnings, economic conditions in the end-markets we sell into, commodity costs and surcharges, currency exchange rates, tax audits, and general domestic and international economic conditions. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Third Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not assume any obligation or intend to update any forward-looking statement except as required by law.
To download a copy of the full earnings report, please go to www.danaher.com.
Please contact:
Andy Wilson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Danaher Corporation
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 828-0850
 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
As of December 31 ($ in thousands)
 
 
Year Ended December 31 ($ in thousands)
 
 
($ in thousands, unaudited)
 
 
Danaher Corporation
Supplemental Reconciliation of Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (GAAP) to
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (Non-GAAP)
Three Months and Years Ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006
 
NOTE: In addition to the results provided in this release in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the non-GAAP measure of adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (the "non-GAAP measure") which compares diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months and year ended December, 2007 to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2006 on a basis which:
 
 
The non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, diluted net earnings per share calculated according to GAAP. Danaher's non-GAAP measure may be defined differently than similar non-GAAP measures that are used by other companies.
 
Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measure, provide a more complete understanding of Danaher's current performance and performance compared to previous periods and forecasts, and helps identify underlying trends in Danaher's business. The gains related to indemnity proceeds, the sale of securities and the net reductions in income tax reserves and discrete tax benefits have been excluded from the non-GAAP measure because items of this nature and size occur with inconsistent frequency and for reasons that may be unrelated to Danaher's commercial performance during the period. The charges related to the Tektronix acquisition have been excluded because acquisition-related charges of this nature and size occur with inconsistent frequency and we believe are not indicative of Danaher's ongoing operating costs in a given period.
Danaher management references the non-GAAP measure in assessing current performance and making decisions about internal budgets, resource allocation and financial goals for its business units. Danaher management believes that the non-GAAP measure helps investors and others, if they so choose, in understanding and evaluating Danaher's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does. In addition, Danaher believes that analysts and others in the investment community use the non-GAAP measure to assess Danaher's performance, identify trends in Danaher's performance and provide estimates of future performance.
A general limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that use of the non-GAAP measure (as compared to the related GAAP measure) may reduce comparability with other companies who may calculate similar non-GAAP measures differently. Another limitation of the non-GAAP measure is that it excludes items of income that affect Danaher's operations and that may recur in the course of Danaher's business (though at times and in amounts that may be difficult to predict). Danaher management compensates for these and other limitations of the non-GAAP measure by also considering Danaher's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 


