FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20090126072909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2009, Danaher Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by Danaher pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
DANAHER REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2008 RESULTS
WASHINGTON, D.C., January 26, 2009  Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) announced results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $305.7 million, or $0.92 per diluted share. Included in the fourth quarter results are certain non-cash charges related to the acquisition of Tektronix for fair value adjustments to recorded inventory and deferred revenue which reduced net earnings by approximately $5 million or $0.01 per diluted share, as well as after-tax charges of approximately $62 million or $0.18 per diluted share related to previously announced restructuring activities. Absent these two items, adjusted earnings per diluted share was $1.11, essentially flat versus last year's adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.12.
Sales from continuing operations for the 2008 fourth quarter were $3.18 billion, 1% higher than the $3.14 billion reported for the 2007 fourth quarter.
Net earnings for the full year 2008 were $1.3 billion, or $3.95 per diluted share. Included in the full year 2008 earnings per diluted share are the fourth quarter 2008 items noted above, as well as the non-cash charges recorded in the first three quarters of 2008 related to the acquisition of Tektronix for fair value adjustments to recorded inventory and deferred revenue which reduced net earnings by approximately $0.12 per diluted share and gains from the net reduction in income tax reserves and discrete tax benefits of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Absent these items, adjusted earnings per diluted share were $4.23, an increase of 10.5% compared to the 2007 full year adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $3.83.
Sales from continuing operations for 2008 were $12.7 billion compared to $11 billion for 2007, an increase of 15%.
Attached is a reconciliation of adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations calculated according to GAAP, for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2008 and the comparable prior year periods.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "The dramatic downturn in the global economy in the latter part of 2008 negatively impacted a number of our businesses, our end markets and our customers. In spite of these unprecedented headwinds we were able to deliver a solid 2008 performance. Core revenues decreased 1% in the quarter and increased 2.5% for the full year. Operating cash flow from continuing operations in 2008 was a record $1.9 billion, representing a 9.5% increase over our record 2007 performance. While we expect 2009 to be a difficult year, we believe our solid portfolio of businesses, our strong balance sheet and the Danaher Business System will provide our experienced team the opportunity to outperform."
Danaher Corporation is a leading manufacturer of Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies, and Tools and Components (www.danaher.com).
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statements regarding expectations for 2009 and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, may be "forward-looking" statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, the current economic recession and the
 
upheaval in the credit markets and financial services industry, competition, our ability to develop and successfully market new products and technologies, our ability to expand our business in new markets, our ability to identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property and environmental matters, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, tax audits and changes in our tax rate, currency exchange rates, commodity costs and surcharges, our relationships with and the performance of our channel partners, our ability to achieve projected efficiencies, cost reductions, sales growth and earnings, economic and other conditions in the end-markets we sell into, and general domestic and international economic conditions. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Third Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not assume any obligation or intend to update any forward-looking statement.
Please contact:
Andy Wilson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Danaher Corporation
2099 Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 828-0850
 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
As of December 31 ($ and shares in thousands)
 
 
Year Ended December 31 ($ in thousands)
 
 
($ in thousands, unaudited)
 
 
Danaher Corporation
Supplemental Reconciliation of Net Earnings from Continuing Operations and Diluted Net Earnings
Per Share from Continuing Operations (GAAP) to Adjusted Net Earnings from Continuing
Operations and Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (Non-GAAP)
Three Months and Years Ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007
($ in 000's except per share data)
 
 
Danaher Corporation
Supplemental Reconciliation of Revenue Growth (GAAP) to Revenue Growth from Existing Businesses (Non-GAAP)
Three Months Ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007
 
Notes to Non-GAAP Reconciliation Schedule
General
In addition to the results provided in this release in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the following non-GAAP measures:
(1) Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and adjusted net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. These measures are calculated on a basis which:
 
 
The Company also discloses the year-over-year percentage change in these non-GAAP measures. Collectively, these non-GAAP measures are referred to as the "non-GAAP earnings measures".
(2) Core revenue growth from existing businesses (presented on a stand-alone basis), which is defined as revenue growth from businesses that have been owned for one year or more, excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations.
The non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, the comparable GAAP measures. Danaher's non-GAAP measures may be defined differently than similar non-GAAP measures that are used by other companies.
Non-GAAP earnings measures and revenue growth from existing businesses
Danaher's management believes that the non-GAAP earnings measures and revenue growth from existing businesses reflect additional ways of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, provide a more complete understanding of Danaher's results of
 
operations and help identify underlying trends in Danaher's business. The items that have been excluded from the non-GAAP earnings measures have been excluded because items of this nature and size occur with inconsistent frequency and for reasons that may be unrelated to Danaher's commercial performance during the period, and we believe are not indicative of Danaher's ongoing operating costs or gains in a given period. Similarly, revenue growth from existing businesses excludes items that are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.
Danaher's management uses these non-GAAP measures in assessing current performance against prior period performance and against forecasted performance, in forecasting financial results for future periods, and in making decisions about internal budgets, resource allocation and financial goals for its business units. Danaher's management believes that these non-GAAP measures help investors and others, if they so choose, in understanding and evaluating Danaher's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does. In addition, Danaher believes that analysts and others in the investment community use these non-GAAP measures to assess Danaher's performance against prior period performance and against forecasted performance, compare Danaher's performance to the performance of our peer companies, identify trends in Danaher's performance and provide estimates of future performance.
A general limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that use of these measures (as compared to the related GAAP measures of net earnings from continuing operations, revenue and revenue growth) may reduce comparability with other companies who may calculate similar non-GAAP measures differently. A particular limitation of the non-GAAP earnings measures is that they exclude charges that can significantly affect Danaher's results of operations and that may recur in the course of Danaher's business (though at times and in amounts that may be difficult to predict). Similarly, a particular limitation of revenue growth from existing businesses is that it excludes items that can significantly impact our revenues. Danaher management compensates, and believes that investors should compensate, for these and other limitations of these non-GAAP measures by also considering Danaher's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP, including the GAAP measures described above in this paragraph.
 


