FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20100127173851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 28, 2010, Danaher Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by Danaher pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 27, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
DANAHER REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2009 RESULTS
WASHINGTON, D.C., January 28, 2010  Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) announced today that GAAP net earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 were $267 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, a 13% decrease as compared to the Company's 2008 fourth quarter GAAP net earnings of $306 million, or $0.92 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, which reflects the adjustments identified in the attached reconciliation schedule, adjusted net earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 were $375 million or $1.12 per diluted share, a 1% increase over 2008 fourth quarter adjusted net earnings of $371 million or $1.11 per diluted share. Sales for the 2009 fourth quarter were $3.1 billion, 1.5% less than the $3.2 billion reported for the 2008 fourth quarter. Core revenues declined 9% in the quarter, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.
GAAP net earnings for the full year 2009 were $1.15 billion, or $3.46 per diluted share, compared with GAAP net earnings of $1.32 billion, or $3.95 per diluted share for 2008. Sales for the full year 2009 were $11.2 billion compared to $12.7 billion for the full year 2008, a decrease of 12%.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We were encouraged by the continued sequential end market improvements in the fourth quarter, as well as our team's solid execution on the restructuring initiatives undertaken throughout the year. Our continued focus on internal growth investments, new product introductions and strategic M&A opportunities give us confidence that we can outperform in 2010 and over the long term."
Danaher will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 7:30 a.m. EST. The call and an accompanying slide presentation will be webcast on the "Investors" section of Danaher's website at . A replay of the webcast can be accessed on the "Investors" section of Danaher's website (under the subheading "Investor Events") shortly after the conclusion of the presentation, and the webcast will remain available until the next quarterly earnings call. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 888-417-2254 in the US or 719-325-2339 outside the US a few minutes before the 7:30 a.m. EST start and telling the operator that you are dialing in for Danaher's investor conference call, access code 5742258. A replay of the conference call will be available shortly after the conclusion of the call until February 2, 2010 and you can access the replay by dialing 888-203-1112 in the US or 719-457-0820 outside the US, access code 5742258. In addition, presentation materials relating to Danaher's results have been posted to the "Investors" section of Danaher's website under the subheading "Earnings."
www.danaher.com
Danaher is a diversified technology leader that designs, manufactures, and markets innovative products and services to professional, medical, industrial, and commercial customers. Our portfolio of premier brands is among the most highly recognized in each of the markets we serve. Driven by a foundation provided by the Danaher Business System, our 47,000 associates serve customers in more than 125 countries and generated $11.2 billion of revenue in 2009. For more information please visit our website: .
www.danaher.com
In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this earnings announcement also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The reasons why we use these measures, a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information relating to these measures are included in the supplemental reconciliation schedule attached.
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statements regarding execution of cost reduction activities, growth investments, new product introductions, acquisitions and expectations for 2010 and future periods and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, may be "forward-looking" statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, the current uncertainty in the global economy and credit markets, the impact of our restructuring activities on our ability to grow, contractions or growth rates and cyclicality of markets we serve, competition, our ability to develop and successfully
 
market new products and technologies and expand into new markets, our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, contingent liabilities relating to acquisitions, risks relating to potential impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, currency exchange rates, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, tax audits and changes in our tax rate, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property and environmental matters, risks relating to product defects and recalls, the impact of our debt obligations on our operations, pension plan costs, commodity costs and surcharges, our ability to adjust purchases and manufacturing capacity to reflect market conditions, legislative health care reform and other changes in health care industry, labor matters, our relationships with and the performance of our channel partners, risks relating to man-made and natural disasters, our ability to achieve projected cost reductions and growth, and international economic, political, legal and business factors. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 2009. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise.
To download a copy of the full earnings report, please go to .
www.danaher.com
Please contact:
 
 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
As of December 31 ($ and shares in thousands)
 
 
Year Ended December 31 ($ in thousands)
 
 
($ in thousands, unaudited)
 
 
DANAHER CORPORATION
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
($ in 000's except per share data)
 
 
Core Revenue Growth/Decline
 
General
We believe that the non-GAAP measures set forth in this presentation, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, provide additional understanding of Danaher's performance and help identify underlying trends in Danaher's business. The non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, the comparable GAAP measures.
Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings Per Share
We use the term adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share to refer to GAAP net earnings and GAAP diluted net earnings per share, respectively, excluding the items identified in the reconciliation schedule above. These items have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures because items of this nature and/or size occur with inconsistent frequency, for reasons that may be unrelated to Danaher's commercial performance during the period and/or we believe are not indicative of Danaher's ongoing operating costs or gains in a given period. We believe that these measures reflect additional ways of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, help our investors to better understand the long-term profitability trends of our business, and facilitate easier comparisons of our profitability to prior and future periods and to our peers. We believe that investors use these measures to (1) generally assess the performance of our operating model, including assessing Danaher's performance against prior period performance, forecasted performance and/or peer company performance, (2) forecast financial results for future periods, (3) identify trends in Danaher's performance, and (4) value Danaher.
The Company estimates the tax effect of the items identified in the reconciliation schedule above by applying the Company's overall estimated effective tax rate to the pre-tax amount, unless the nature of the item and/or the tax jurisdiction in which the item has been recorded requires application of a specific tax rate or tax treatment, in which case the tax effect of such item is estimated by applying such specific tax rate or tax treatment.
Core Revenue and Core Revenue Growth/Decline
We use the term "core revenue" to refer to GAAP revenue excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition ("acquisition sales"), and (2) the impact of currency translation. The portion of GAAP revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in GAAP revenue (excluding acquisition sales) and (b) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding acquisition sales) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. We use the term "core revenue growth/decline" to refer to the measure of comparing current period core revenue with the corresponding period of the prior year. We exclude the effect of currency translation from these measures because currency translation is not under management's control, is subject to volatility and can therefore obscure underlying business trends. We exclude the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between us and our peers, which we believe may obscure underlying business trends and makes comparisons of long-term performance difficult. We believe that these measures reflect additional ways of viewing aspects of Danaher's operations that, when viewed with and reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, help our investors to better identify and understand underlying growth trends in our business, and facilitate easier comparisons of our results of operations with prior and future periods and to our peers. We believe that investors use these measures to help gauge Danaher's long-term growth prospects and to value Danaher.
 


