FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20110511171456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
On May 10, 2011, at the annual meeting of shareholders of Danaher Corporation (the "Company"), the Company's shareholders approved certain amendments (the "Amendment") to the Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and the material terms of the performance goals under the Plan. Following is a brief description of the Amendment. The description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended 2007 Stock Incentive Plan attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.07 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
The Company's annual meeting of shareholders was held on May 10, 2011. At the annual meeting, the shareholders voted on the following proposals:
1. To elect the three directors named in the Company's proxy statement to terms expiring in 2014. Each nominee for director was elected by a vote of the shareholders as follows:
 
2. To ratify the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2011. The proposal was approved by a vote of shareholders as follows:
 
3. To approve an amendment to Danaher's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of directors. The proposal was approved by a vote of shareholders as follows:
 
4. To approve an amendment to Danaher's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to allow holders of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the Company's outstanding shares to call a special meeting of shareholders. The proposal was approved by a vote of shareholders as follows:
 
5. To approve certain amendments to Danaher's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the material terms of the performance goals under the Plan. The proposal was approved by a vote of shareholders as follows:
 
6. To approve on an advisory basis the Company's executive officer compensation. The proposal was approved by a vote of shareholders as follows:
 
7. To hold an advisory vote relating to the frequency of future shareholder advisory votes on the Company's executive officer compensation. The Company's shareholders voted as follows on this proposal:
 
Based on the voting results set forth above, the Company has adopted a policy to hold an annual advisory vote on executive compensation until the next required vote on the frequency of shareholder advisory votes on the compensation of executives.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 11, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
"Administrator" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, unless the Board specifies another committee or the Board elects to act in such capacity.
"Applicable Period" with respect to any Performance Period for an Award means a period beginning on or before the first day of the Performance Period and ending no later than the earlier of (i) the 90th day of the Performance Period or (ii) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has been completed.
"Award" means an award of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Other Stock-Based Awards (each as defined below).
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Code" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time and the regulations issued with respect thereof.
"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan.
"Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
"Company" means Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
"Consultant" means any person engaged as a consultant or advisor of the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary for whom a Form S-8 Registration Statement is available for the issuance of securities.
"Covered Employees" means any person who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).
"Date of Grant" will be the date as of which the Administrator grants an Award to a person.
"Disability" means the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months.
"Early Retirement" means an employee voluntarily ceases to be an Employee and the Administrator determines (either initially or subsequent to the grant of the relevant Award) that the cessation constitutes Retirement for purposes of this Plan. In deciding whether a termination of employment is an Early Retirement, the Administrator need not consider the definition under any other Company benefit plan.
"Eligible Director" (or "Director") means a non-employee director of the Company or one of its Eligible Subsidiaries.
"Eligible Subsidiary" means each of the Company's Subsidiaries, except as the Administrator otherwise specifies.
"Employee" means any person employed as an employee of the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary.
"Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exercise Price" means, in the case of an Option, the value of the consideration that an Optionee must provide in exchange for one share of Common Stock. In the case of a SAR, "Exercise Price," means an amount which is subtracted from the Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR.
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the fair market value of a share of Common Stock for purposes of the Plan which will be determined as follows:
 
 
For any date that is not a trading day, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock for such date shall be determined by using the closing sale price or the average of the closing bid and asked prices, as appropriate, for the immediately preceding trading day.
"Gross Misconduct" means the Participant has:
 
 
 
 
"Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means a stock option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422.
"Normal Retirement" means an employee voluntarily ceases to be an Employee at or after reaching age sixty-five (65).
"Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan that is not an ISO, entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares.
"Optionee" means an Employee, Consultant, or Director who has been granted an Option under this Plan or, where appropriate, a person authorized to exercise an Option in place of the intended original Optionee.
"Other Stock-Based Awards" are Awards (other than Options, SARs, RSUs and Restricted Stock Grants) that are denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock.
"Participant" means Optionees and Recipients, collectively. The term "Participant" also includes, where appropriate, a person authorized to exercise an Option or hold or receive another Award in place of the intended original Optionee or Recipient.
"Performance Objectives" means one or more objective, measurable performance factors as determined by the Committee (as described in Section 4(b) of the Plan) with respect to each Performance Period based upon one or more of the factors set forth in Section 14 of the Plan.
"Performance Period" means a period for which Performance Objectives are set and during which performance is to be measured to determine whether a Participant is entitled to payment of an Award under the Plan. A Performance Period may coincide with one or more complete or partial calendar or fiscal years of the Company. Unless otherwise designated by the Committee, the Performance Period will be based on the calendar year.
"Plan" means this 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Recipient" means an Employee, Consultant, or Director who has been granted an Award other than an Option under this Plan or, where appropriate, a person authorized to hold or receive such an Award in place of the intended original Recipient.
"Restricted Stock Grant" means a direct grant of Common Stock, as awarded under Section 8 of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock Unit" or "RSU" means a bookkeeping entry representing an unfunded right to receive (if conditions are met) one share of Common Stock, as awarded under Section 9 of the Plan.
"Retirement" means both Early Retirement and Normal Retirement, as defined herein.
 
"Section 16 Persons" means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"Securities Act" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means any right granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
"Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain beginning with the Company if, at the time an Award is granted to a Participant under the Plan, each of such entities (other than the last entity in the unbroken chain) owns stock or other equity possessing twenty percent (20%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or equity in one of the other entities in such chain.
"1998 Plan" means the Amended and Restated Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the Administrator may in its sole discretion reduce or eliminate a Participant's unvested Award or Awards if he or she changes classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment in full of the Exercise Price need not accompany the written notice of exercise provided the notice directs that the shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise be delivered, either in certificate form or in book entry form, to a licensed broker acceptable to the Company as the agent for the individual exercising the Option and at the time the shares are delivered to the broker, either in certificate form or in book entry form, the broker will tender to the Company cash or cash equivalents acceptable to the Company and equal to the Exercise Price.
The Administrator may agree to payment through the tender to the Company of shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock offered as payment will be valued, for purposes of determining the extent to which the Optionee has paid the Exercise Price, at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall determine whether such Performance Objectives are attained, and such determination will be final and conclusive. Each Performance Objective may be expressed in absolute and/or relative terms or ratios and may be based on or use comparisons with internal targets, the past performance of the Company (including the performance of one or more Subsidiaries, divisions, platforms, operating units and/or other business unit) and/or the past or current performance of other companies. In the case of earnings-based measures, Performance Objectives may use comparisons relating to capital (including, but not limited to, the cost of capital), cash flow, free cash flow, shareholders' equity and/or shares outstanding, or to assets or net assets.
For Awards intended to comply with Code Section 162(m), the measures used in setting Performance Objectives under the Plan for any given Performance Period will, to the extent applicable, be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and in a manner consistent with the methods used in the Company's audited financial statements, without regard to (1) extraordinary or nonrecurring items in accordance with GAAP, (2) the impact of any change in accounting principles that occurs during the Performance Period (or that occurred during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to) and the cumulative effect thereof (provided that the
 
Committee may (as specified by the Committee within the Applicable Period) either apply the changed accounting principle to all periods referenced in the Award, or exclude the changed accounting principle from all periods referenced in the Award), (3) goodwill and other intangible impairment charges, (4) gains or charges associated with discontinued operations or with the obtaining or losing control of a business, (5) gains or charges related to the sale or impairment of assets, (6) (i) all transaction costs directly related to acquisitions, (ii) all restructuring charges directly related to acquisitions and incurred within two years of the acquisition date, (iii) all charges and gains arising from the resolution of acquisition-related contingent liabilities identified as of the acquisition date, and (iv) all other charges directly related to acquisitions and incurred within two years of the acquisition date, (7) the impact of any discrete income tax charges or benefits identified during the Performance Period (or during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to), and (8) other objective income, expense, asset, and/or cash flow adjustments as may be consistent with the purposes of the Performance Objectives set for the given Performance Period and specified by the Committee within the Applicable Period; provided, that with respect to the gains and charges referred to in sections (3), (4), (5), (6)(iii), 6(iv) and (7), only gains or charges that individually or as part of a series of related items exceed $10 million in aggregate during the Performance Period and any period that the Performance Period is being compared to are excluded; and provided further that the Committee in its sole discretion and within the Applicable Period may determine that any or all of the carve-outs described in subsections (1) through (7) shall not be excluded from the measures used to determine the Performance Objectives for a particular Performance Period or shall be modified, and/or may determine to exclude other items from such measures for such Performance Period. In addition to the Performance Objectives established for any Award that is intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) and any time-based vesting provisions that may apply to such Award, any Award that is intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) shall not vest under its terms unless the Company has first achieved four consecutive fiscal quarters of positive net income during the period between the grant date and the tenth anniversary of the grant date and the Administrator has certified that such performance has been satisfied.
 
 
In the event of a declaration of an extraordinary dividend on the Common Stock payable in a form other than Common Stock in an amount that has a material effect on the price of the Common Stock, the Administrator shall make such adjustments as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate to the items set forth in subsections (a)  (c) in the preceding paragraph.
Any issue by the Company of any class of preferred stock, or securities convertible into shares of common or preferred stock of any class, will not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof will be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Award or the Exercise Price except as this Section 15 specifically provides. The grant of an Award under the Plan will not affect in any way the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or to consolidate, or to dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although in establishing such sub-plans, terms or procedures, the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify an Award for favorable foreign tax treatment or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment, the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment. The Company shall be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on holders of Awards under the Plan.
 
The Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and all regulations and rules the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
 
issues under those laws. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Administrator must administer the Plan, and Awards may be granted, vested and exercised, only in a way that conforms to such laws, rules, and regulations.
 
 
 
 
Additionally, the Common Stock, when issued under an Award, will be subject to any other transfer restrictions, rights of first refusal, and rights of repurchase set forth in or incorporated by reference into other applicable documents, including the Company's articles or certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or generally applicable stockholders' agreements.
The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to comply with such restrictions and applicable laws, including placing legends on certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the participant is a "specified employee" as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Plan or an Award constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code Section 409A), and to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under this Plan or an Award may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the participant's separation from service, or (ii) the participant's date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the
 
seventh month following the participant's separation from service. If this Plan or any Award fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the participant by Code Section 409A, and the participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.
 


