FILE:DHR/DHR-8K-20110617172743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revolving Loan Facility
On June 17, 2011, Danaher Corporation ("Danaher") entered into a $3.0 billion revolving loan facility (the "Credit Agreement") with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and UBS Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and a syndicate of lenders from time to time party thereto (the "Lenders"), in connection with Danaher's tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to acquire all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beckman Coulter, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Beckman Coulter"), to be followed by a second step cash-out merger (the "Beckman Coulter Acquisition"). The Beckman Coulter Acquisition is the subject of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 6, 2011, by and among Danaher, Beckman Coulter and Djanet Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Danaher (as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Merger Agreement"). The Credit Agreement expires on June 16, 2012 (the "Scheduled Termination Date"), subject to a one-year extension option at the request of Danaher and with the consent of the Lenders. Danaher may elect, upon the payment of a fee equal to 1% of the principal amount of the loans then outstanding, to convert any loans outstanding on the Scheduled Termination Date into term loans that are due and payable one year following the Scheduled Termination Date (the "Term Loan Conversion"). The description of the Credit Agreement set forth herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is referenced as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Borrowings under the revolving loan facility bear interest as follows: (1) Eurodollar Rate Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) bear interest at a variable rate per annum equal to London inter-bank offered rate plus a margin of between 100 and 125 basis points, depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time (or a margin of between 200 and 225 basis points from and after the date of any Term Loan Conversion); and (2) Base Rate Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) bear interest at a variable rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate (as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from time to time) plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the Prime Lending Rate as published in The Wall Street Journal from time to time and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%, plus in each case a margin of up to 25 basis points depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time (or a margin of between 100 and 125 basis points from and after the date of any Term Loan Conversion). In addition, Danaher is required to pay a per annum commitment fee of between 7.5 and 12.5 basis points (depending on Danaher's credit rating from time to time) based on the aggregate commitments under the Credit Agreement, less the amount of any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement. In the event that the credit ratings assigned to Danaher by nationally recognized debt rating agencies are downgraded as set forth in the Credit Agreement, the interest rate and commitment fee under the revolving loan facility are subject to incremental upward adjustments. The Credit Agreement requires Danaher to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. The revolving loan facility is required to be prepaid with, and the commitments under the revolving loan facility are required to be reduced by, the net cash proceeds of certain equity or debt issuances by Danaher or any of its subsidiaries completed on
or after June 17, 2011, but excluding the net proceeds of Danaher's recently announced offering of common stock, which is expected to close on June 21, 2011 (but in no event shall the foregoing require Danaher to reduce the aggregate commitments below $2.2 billion). The revolving loan facility is prepayable at Danaher's option in whole or in part without premium or penalty.
Danaher's obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The effectiveness of the Credit Agreement is conditioned on the following: the absence of a material adverse change, the absence of breaches of representations and warranties and defaults under the Agreement, certain documentation requirements, and payment of fees and expenses due under the Agreement. The obligation of the Lenders to make the initial advance under the Credit Agreement is conditioned on the Tender Offer occurring in accordance with the Merger Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Danaher and certain of its subsidiaries to: incur liens; sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of Danaher's assets; enter into mergers or consolidations; and use proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement for other than permitted uses. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications. Certain changes of control would constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Danaher intends to use the Credit Agreement as credit support for Danaher's Global Commercial Paper Program and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. If Danaher is unable to issue commercial paper and other notes in an amount sufficient to complete the Beckman Coulter Acquisition, Danaher intends to finance any shortfall with borrowings under the Credit Agreement and/or its existing credit facility.
Certain of the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, and their respective affiliates, have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Danaher and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 17, 2011 (this ""), is entered into among DANAHER CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
WHEREAS, the Borrower has commenced a tender offer to acquire pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beckman Coulter, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""); and
Target
WHEREAS, in order to finance in part the payment of the Acquisition consideration (either directly or through the back-stop of commercial paper issued by the Borrower) and for its other general corporate purposes, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01. Defined Terms
"" means the acquisition by the Borrower or Acquisition Co. of 100% of the Shares of the Target, through (i) a Tender Offer, and (ii) promptly following the consummation of the Tender Offer, effecting a Merger.
Acquisition
"" means Djanet Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation.
Acquisition Co.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 10.21
"" has the meaning specified in .
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 2.13(d)
"" means MSSF in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power,
Affiliate
Control
 
by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to be Controlled by another Person if such other Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors, managing general partners or the equivalent.
Controlling
Controlled
"" means the Administrative Agent, together with its Affiliates (including, in the case of MSSF in its capacity as the Administrative Agent and an Arranger), and the officers, directors, employees, agents and attorneys-in-fact of such Persons and Affiliates.
Agent-Related Persons
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders which, as of the date hereof, are equal to $3,000,000,000.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means, (i) from time to time for any date prior to the Term Loan Conversion Date, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below,
Applicable Rate
 
and (ii) from time to time for any date on or after the Term Loan Conversion Date, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below,
 
For the purpose of the definition of "Applicable Rate", "" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that if a Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 3 being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(vi)
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means MSSF, Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, each in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and joint book manager in respect of the Commitments hereunder.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an Assignment and Assumption substantially in the form of or such other form as the Administrative Agent and the Borrower may reasonably approve.
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit D
"" means all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket fees, expenses and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel.
Attorney Costs
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Off Balance Sheet Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K filed by the Borrower on April 21, 2011.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Termination Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans.
Availability Period
Section 2.03
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest per annum from time to time published in the "Money Rates" section of The Wall Street Journal as being the "Prime Lending Rate" or, if more than one rate is published as the Prime Lending Rate, then the highest of such rates (the "") (each change in the Prime Rate to be effective as of the date of publication in The Wall Street Journal of a "Prime Lending Rate" that is different from that published on the preceding domestic Business Day), provided that in the event that The Wall Street Journal shall, for any reason, fail or cease to publish the Prime Lending Rate, the Administrative Agent shall use the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Barclays Bank plc as its "prime rate," as the basis for the "Prime Lending Rate" and (c) the Eurodollar Rate on such day for an Interest Period of one month plus 1%.
Base Rate
Prime Rate
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type, denominated in Dollars, and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan, or any other dealings to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding (i) any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan and (ii) Steven M. Rales and Mitchell P. Rales) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the equity securities of such Person entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of such Person cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (in each case, such approval either by a specific vote or by approval of the Borrower's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"" means the first date on which the condition precedent in is satisfied, or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.02(a)
Section 10.01(a)
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and (c) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) and (b) above of Persons other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) the sum of such Consolidated Funded Indebtedness Shareholders' Equity as of such date.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
plus
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Affiliate."
Control
"" means the incurrence of Indebtedness by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to any debt securities but excluding any issuances of commercial paper or other similar short term borrowings.
Debt Issuance
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (a) the Base Rate (b) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to fund any portion of its Loans (other than at the direction or request of any regulatory authority) within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless such Lender, acting reasonably and in good faith, notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) notified the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's determination, acting reasonably and in good faith, that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a Loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective
Defaulting Lender
 
Loans, (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) (i) become or is insolvent or has a parent company that has become or is insolvent or (ii) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, a Lender will not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any Stock in such Lender or its parent company by any Governmental Authority.
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means the first date on which all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with (or in the case of , waived by the Person entitled to receive the applicable payment).
Effective Date
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(b)
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , , , ,  and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.07(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
Section 10.07(b)(iii)
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means the issue or sale of any Stock of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to any Person other than (i) to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (as applicable), (ii) pursuant to any employee equity compensation plan, employee benefit plan or non-employee director equity compensation plan or pursuant to the exercise or vesting of any stock options, restricted stock units, warrants or other equity awards or (iii) pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement among the Borrower and the underwriters party thereto, dated as of June 14, 2011 (including, if applicable, any Stock pursuant to the over allotment option exercised by such underwriters) for an aggregate amount of net cash proceeds not exceeding $1,000,000,000.
Equity Issuance
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a
ERISA Event
 
plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the FRB.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the Eurodollar Base Rate for such Interest Period by (b)(x) a percentage equal to 100% minus (b) the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the Eurodollar Rate is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in Dollars (for delivery in the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent as the rate of interest at which deposits for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by the Administrative Agent and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by the Administrative Agent's London branch (or other Administrative Agent's Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for Dollars at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2006 (as amended from time to time), among the Borrower, as borrower, certain lenders from time to time party thereto, as lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in .
Extending Lender
Section 2.13(b)
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
 
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to MSSF on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Lender
Section 10.15(a)(i)
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, administrative tribunal, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.07(h)
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person. The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
 
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d) all non-contingent obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f) capital leases and Off Balance Sheet Obligations; and
(g) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company or similar limited liability entity organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or a state thereof) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Off Balance Sheet Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnified Liabilities
Section 10.05
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.05
"" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurodollar Rate Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months (or, if agreed by each applicable Lender, nine or twelve months) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
 
(ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law, including, without limitation all Environmental Laws.
Laws
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
"" means the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
Lender Party
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Loan as defined in and including any such Loans which have been converted to Term Loans pursuant to .
Loan
Article II
Section 2.01
Section 2.06(b)
"" means this Agreement, each Loan Notice and each Note.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" means Regulations T, U and X of the FRB.
Margin Regulations
"" has the meaning specified in the Margin Regulations.
Margin Stock
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the business, assets, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (but excluding for the purposes of , the
Material Adverse Effect
Section 4.02(a)
 
Target and its Subsidiaries); (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document; (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document; or (d) a material adverse effect upon the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document.
"" means the Scheduled Termination Date or, if either (i) the Term Loan Conversion Option has been exercised or (ii) if such date is extended in accordance with Section 2.13, the day that is 364 calendar days following the Scheduled Termination Date; , , that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
"" means the merger of Acquisition Co. with and into the Target, with the surviving corporation being a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, in each case pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger
"" means that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 6, 2011 by and among the Borrower, Target and Acquisition Co. (including all annexes and exhibits thereto and all material documents related to consummation of the Tender Offer, as amended, modified and supplemented in accordance with the terms hereof).
Merger Agreement
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and its successors.
MSSF
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, as at any particular date of determination, the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, as set forth in the most recent balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Net Tangible Assets
"" has the meaning specified in .
Non-Extending Lender
Section 2.13(b)
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
"" has the meaning specified in .
Notice Date
Section 2.13(b)
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment) or (c) an agreement for the sale of receivables or like assets creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, could be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Off Balance Sheet Obligation
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" has the meaning specified in .
Other Taxes
Section 3.01(b)
"" means on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Loans occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.07(d)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Base Rate."
Prime Rate
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Commitment of such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Commitments at such time; that if the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been
Pro Rata Share
provided
 
terminated pursuant to , or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Pro Rata Share of each Lender shall be determined based on the Pro Rata Share of such Lender immediately prior to such termination and after giving effect to any subsequent assignments made pursuant to the terms hereof. The initial Pro Rata Share of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 10.07(c)
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated, at least two Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer, chief accounting officer, corporate controller, general counsel or any executive vice president of the Borrower. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means the day that is 364 calendar days following the date of this Agreement.
Scheduled Termination Date
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
"" means, collectively, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of the Target.
Shares
"" has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 10.07(h)
"" means (a) shares of capital stock (whether denominated as common stock or preferred stock), beneficial, partnership or membership interests, participations or other equivalents (regardless of how designated) of or in a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or equivalent entity, whether voting or non-voting and/or (b) securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock and all warrants, options or other rights to purchase or subscribe for any shares or capital stock, whether or not presently convertible, exchangeable or exercisable.
Stock
 
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals.
Target
"" has the meaning specified in .
Taxes
Section 3.01(a)
"" means the tender offer commenced on February 15, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified prior to the date hereof, and as otherwise amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with this Agreement) by Acquisition Co. for the Shares, including any Shares that may become outstanding upon the exercise of options or other rights to acquire Shares after February 15, 2011 but before the consummation of the Tender Offer, for a purchase price consisting of cash consideration as set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Tender Offer
"" means a term loan resulting from the conversion of Loans on the Scheduled Termination Date pursuant to .
Term Loan
Section 2.06(b)
"" means, in the event that the Term Loan Conversion Option is exercised, the Scheduled Termination Date.
Term Loan Conversion Date
"" means the option under for the Borrower to convert, as of the Scheduled Termination Date, all or a part of the Loans then outstanding into Term Loans.
Term Loan Conversion Option
Section 2.06(b)
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the Scheduled Termination Date or, if such date is extended in accordance with , the day that is 364 calendar days following the Scheduled Termination Date.
Termination Date
Section 2.13
"" means $200,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
"" means with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02. Other Interpretive Provisions
(a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
(b) (i) The words "herein," "hereto," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.
(ii) Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Loan Document in which such reference appears.
(iii) The term "" is by way of example and not limitation.
including
(iv) The term "" includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports, financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.
documents
(c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including;" the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding;" and the word "through" means "to and including."
(d) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
(e) All references to any Person shall also refer to the successors and assigns of such Person permitted hereunder.
. (a) All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03. Accounting Terms
except
 
(b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); provided that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP. For purposes of calculations made pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, GAAP will be deemed to treat operating leases and capital leases each in a manner consistent with its current treatment under generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on December 31, 2010, notwithstanding any modifications or interpretive changes thereto that may occur thereafter.
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04. Rounding
. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to Organization Documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and (b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.
1.05. References to Agreements and Laws
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.06. Times of Day
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower in Dollars from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Loans of any Lender shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01. Loans
Loan
provided
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.04
Section 2.01
.
2.02. Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
(a) Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the
 
Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 12:00 noon three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans and (ii) 11:00 a.m. on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
Section 2.02(a)
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Pro Rata Share of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in Dollars at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m., in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Administrative Agent with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.03
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. The determination of the Eurodollar Rate by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in the Prime Rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
 
(f) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Loans comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $5,000,000, such Loans shall, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, automatically be converted into Base Rate Loans.
. The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Pro Rata Share. All commitment fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.03. Voluntary Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
. The Borrower may, upon notice from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall irrevocably make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.
2.04. Voluntary Prepayments
provided
Section 3.05
. Upon receipt by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, on or after the date hereof, of net cash proceeds arising from any Debt Issuance or Equity Issuance, the Borrower shall immediately notify the Administrative Agent thereof and within three Business Days of such receipt, prepay the Loans in an amount equal to 100% of such net cash proceeds in an aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000,000. All repayments of Loans required to be made pursuant to this shall result in a corresponding permanent reduction of the Commitments; that if the aggregate amount of such net cash proceeds at any time so received and required to prepay the Loans pursuant to the foregoing exceeds the aggregate amount of Loans then outstanding (including if no Loans are outstanding), then the aggregate Commitments shall immediately be permanently be reduced by an amount equal to such excess (but in no event shall the foregoing require the Borrower to reduce the aggregate Commitments below $2,200,000,000). The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such prepayment. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.
2.05. Mandatory Prepayment and Commitment Reduction
Section 2.05
provided
Section 3.05
 
. (a) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect (except pursuant to exercise of the Term Loan Conversion Option), the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
2.06. Repayment of Loans; Conversion of Loans
(b) The Borrower shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, repay to the Lenders on the Scheduled Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of Loans made to the Borrower outstanding on such date. The Borrower may (unless the Scheduled Termination Date has been extended pursuant to ), upon written notice to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. on the fifth Business Day prior to the Scheduled Termination Date and upon payment of a fee to the Administrative Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders equal to 1.00% of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding on the Scheduled Termination Date which are to be converted to Term Loans, convert all or a portion (as specified in such written notice) of the unpaid principal amount of the Loans outstanding as of the Scheduled Termination Date into Term Loans. If this Term Loan Conversion Option is exercised, then, on the Scheduled Termination Date, immediately prior to the time when the unpaid principal amount of the Loans would otherwise be due, the Loans (or the applicable portion thereof as requested by the Borrower) shall automatically convert into Term Loans which the Borrower shall repay to the Administrative Agent for the ratable accounts of the Lenders on the Maturity Date. The amounts so converted shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as Loans except that after the Scheduled Termination Date: (i) the Borrower may not make any additional Borrowings; (ii) the amounts paid or prepaid may not be reborrowed; (iii) the amount of each Lender's Commitment shall be terminated; and (iv) no commitment fees shall accrue after the Scheduled Termination Date. Any portion of the Loans not so converted to Term Loans shall be repaid in full on the Scheduled Termination Date.
Section 2.13
. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
2.07. Interest
plus
plus
(b) If any amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Furthermore, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any other Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. On each Interest Payment Date for a Base Rate Loan, interest accrued on such Loan to but excluding such Interest Payment Date shall be due and payable. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
.
2.08. Fees
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share (subject to with respect to any Defaulting Lender), a commitment fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the excess of the Aggregate Commitments over the Outstanding Amount. The commitment fee shall accrue at all times during the period commencing on the earlier of (i) the date that is 60 days following the date hereof and (ii) the Closing Date and ending on the Termination Date, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met. The commitment fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the earlier of the dates set forth in subclauses (i) and (ii) in the immediately preceding sentence, and on the Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). On each such payment date all commitment fees which have accrued to but excluding any such payment date shall be due and payable. The commitment fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Commitment Fee
Section 2.14(a)
times
Article IV
(b) .The Borrower shall pay such other fees as it may separately agree with the Arrangers and/or the Administrative Agent.
Other Fees
. All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by the Prime Rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.
2.09. Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.11(a)
. The Borrowings made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Borrowings made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to the Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to the Borrower in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
2.10. Evidence of Debt
. (a) (i) All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. (ii) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. (iii) The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Pro Rata Share (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. (iv) All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.
2.11. Payments Generally
 
(b) If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(c) Unless the Borrower or any Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, prior to the date any payment is required to be made by it to the Administrative Agent hereunder, that the Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, has timely made such payment and may (but shall not be so required to), in reliance thereon, make available a corresponding amount to the Person entitled thereto. If and to the extent that such payment was not in fact made to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds, then:
(i) if the Borrower failed to make such payment, each Lender shall forthwith on demand repay to the Administrative Agent the portion of such assumed payment that was made available to such Lender in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon in respect of each day from and including the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to such Lender to the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the applicable Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect; and
(ii) if any Lender failed to make such payment, such Lender shall forthwith on demand pay to the Administrative Agent the amount thereof in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon for the period from the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (the "") at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan, included in the applicable Borrowing. If such Lender does not pay such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the Borrower, and the Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights which the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder.
Compensation Period
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (c) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(d) If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to the Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Article II
Article IV
(e) The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan.
 
(f) Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
. If, other than as expressly provided elsewhere herein, any Lender shall obtain on account of the Loans made by it, any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) in excess of its ratable share (or other share contemplated hereunder) thereof, such Lender shall immediately (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Loans made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment in respect of such Loans, pro rata with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from the purchasing Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the purchasing Lender in its discretion), such purchase shall to that extent be rescinded and each other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price paid therefor, without interest thereon. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off, but subject to ) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. The Administrative Agent will keep records (which shall be conclusive and binding in the absence of manifest error) of participations purchased under this Section and will in each case notify the Lenders following any such purchases or repayments. Each Lender that purchases a participation pursuant to this Section shall from and after such purchase have the right to give all notices, requests, demands, directions and other communications under this Agreement with respect to the portion of the Obligations purchased to the same extent as though the purchasing Lender were the original owner of the Obligations purchased.
2.12. Sharing of Payments
provided
however
Section 10.06
Section 10.09
.
2.13. Extension of Maturity Date
(a) . The Borrower may (unless it has exercised the Term Loan Conversion Option), by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 60 days and not later than 35 days prior to the Scheduled Termination Date, request that each Lender extend such Lender's Scheduled Termination Date then in effect for an additional 364 calendar days following the Scheduled Termination Date.
Request for Extension
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date (the "") that is 10 days after receipt of notice of a maturity date extension request, advise the Administrative Agent whether such Lender agrees to such extension (each Lender agreeing to such extension being an ""). Each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date). Any Lender that does not advise the Administrative Agent that it is an Extending Lender on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Extending Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any Non-Extending Lender to so agree (and the Maturity Date for each Non-Extending Lender will not be changed by this ).
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Extending Lender
Non-Extending Lender
Section 2.13
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this no later than the date 15 days prior to the Scheduled Termination Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
Section 2.13
 
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right on or before the Scheduled Termination Date to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in , each of which Additional Commitment Lenders shall have entered into an Assignment and Assumption with one or more Non-Extending Lenders pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Scheduled Termination Date, undertake all or a portion of the Commitment of such Non-Extending Lender (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to any other Commitment of such Lender hereunder on such date).
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 10.16
(e) . If (and only if) at least the Required Lenders have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date, then, effective as of the Scheduled Termination Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling 364 calendar days after the Scheduled Termination Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
(f) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to this shall not be effective with respect to any Extending Lender unless:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Section 2.13
(i) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing both on and as of the Scheduled Termination Date and after giving effect to such extension on the Scheduled Termination Date;
(ii) the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement are true and correct, in all material respects (, that such materiality qualifier shall not be applicable to any representation or warranty that already is qualified or modified by materiality in the text thereof), both on and as of the Scheduled Termination Date and after giving effect to such extension on the Scheduled Termination Date, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date; , , that for these purposes the reference to the Effective Date in the representation and warranty in shall be deemed to be a reference to the Scheduled Termination Date, as the case may be);
provided
provided
however
Section 5.06(b)
(iii) on and as of the Scheduled Termination Date, since the later of the date of the Audited Financial Statements and the date of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to , no event, circumstance or development shall have occurred that constituted or could reasonably be expected to constitute or have a Material Adverse Effect;
Section 6.01(a)
(iv) on the Scheduled Termination Date (to the extent not paid prior thereto), each Non-Extending Lender not replaced by an Additional Commitment Lender under , shall have received from the Borrower payment of the outstanding principal amount of such Non-Extending Lender's Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts which are payable to it hereunder (including, if applicable, any additional amounts required pursuant to ); and
Section 2.13(d)
Section 3.05
(v) on the Scheduled Termination Date, the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate of a Responsible Officer to the Administrative Agent dated such date certifying as to the foregoing matters as of such date.
 
(g) . This shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
Section 2.12
10.01
(h) . The Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Lenders copies of each certificate received from the Borrower pursuant to in respect of an extension hereunder promptly following receipt thereof. On the Scheduled Termination Date the Administrative Agent shall also notify each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender of their revised Pro Rata Shares after giving effect to such extension.
Revised Pro Rata Shares
Section 2.13(f)
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply with respect to such Lender for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
2.14. Defaulting Lender
(a) Commitment fees shall cease to accrue on the unfunded portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to .
Section 2.08(a)
(b) The Commitment of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Lenders or the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to ), subject to .
Section 10.01
Section 10.01
(c) Any amount payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder (whether on account of principal, interest, fees or otherwise, and including any amount that would otherwise be payable to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to but excluding amounts payable pursuant to )) shall, in lieu of being distributed to such Defaulting Lender, be retained by the Administrative Agent in a segregated account and, subject to any applicable requirements of law, be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent (i) , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder, (ii) , to the funding of any Loan in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (iii) , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, held in such account as cash collateral for future funding obligations of the Defaulting Lender under this Agreement, (iv) , pro rata, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower or the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower or any Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement and (v) , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; , that, with respect to clause (v), if such payment is (x) a prepayment of the principal amount of any Loans of which such Defaulting Lender has funded a portion and (y) made at a time when the conditions set forth in are satisfied, such payment shall be applied to prepay the Loans of all non-Defaulting Lenders pro rata prior to being applied to the prepayment of any Loans owed to such Defaulting Lender.
Section 2.12
Section 10.16
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
provided
Section 4.03
In the event that the Administrative Agent and the Borrower each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Commitments of the Lenders shall be deemed readjusted to the extent necessary to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its ratable portion of the Loans on such date.
 
.
3.01. Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income, branch profits taxes, back-up withholding taxes, and franchise or other similar taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, is organized, maintains a lending office or does business (other than doing business solely as a result of entering into this Agreement, performing any obligations hereunder, receiving any payments hereunder or enforcing any rights hereunder) (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""). If the Borrower shall be required by any Laws to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section), each of the Administrative Agent and such Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable Laws, and (iv) to the extent reasonably practicable, within 30 days after the date of such payment, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent (which shall forward the same to such Lender) the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.
Taxes
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any and all present or future stamp, court or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made by the Borrower under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) If the Borrower shall be required to deduct or pay any Taxes or Other Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, the Borrower shall also pay to the Administrative Agent or to such Lender, as the case may be, at the time interest is paid, such additional amount that the Administrative Agent or such Lender specifies is necessary to preserve the after-tax yield (after factoring in all taxes, including taxes imposed on or measured by net income) that the Administrative Agent or such Lender would have received if such Taxes or Other Taxes had not been imposed.
(d) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender for (i) the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent and such Lender, (ii) amounts payable under and (iii) any liability (including additions to tax, penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. Payment under this subsection (d) shall be made within 30 days after the date the Lender or the Administrative Agent makes a written demand therefor, which demand shall be made within 90 days of the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent pays such Taxes of Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority.
Section 3.01(c)
(e) Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders under regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish such Lender's status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, as the Administrative Agent or the Borrower shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Effective Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to
Section 10.15
 
confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that the Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, each of the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Effective Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by the Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f) If and to the extent that any Lender or the Administrative Agent, in its sole discretion (exercised in good faith), determines that it has received or been granted a credit against, relief from, a refund or remission of, or a repayment of, any Taxes or Other Taxes in respect of which it has received additional payments under this , and such credit, refund, relief or remission has been obtained, utilized and fully retained by such Lender or the Administrative Agent on an affiliated group basis, then such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall pay to the Borrower an amount which such Lender or the Administrative Agent determines, in its sole discretion (exercised in good faith) will leave it, after the payments, in the same after-tax position as it would have been in had the payments required under this not been required to be made by the Borrower; provided however that (i) such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall be the sole judge of the amount of such credit, refund, relief or remission and the date on which it is received; (ii) such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall not be obliged to disclose information regarding its tax affairs or tax computations; (iii) nothing in this shall interfere with such Lender's or the Administrative Agent's right to manage its tax affairs in whatever manner it sees fit; and (iv) if such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall subsequently determine that it has lost all or a portion of such tax credit, refund, relief or remission, the Borrower shall promptly remit to such Lender or the Administrative Agent the amount certified by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to be the amount necessary to restore such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the position it would have been in if no payment had been made pursuant to this section.
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(f)
(g) The Borrower's obligations to indemnify a Foreign Lender or pay additional amounts to a Foreign Lender under this are subject to .
Section 3.01
Section 10.15(a)(iii)
. If any Lender determines that any change in or in the interpretation of any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all such Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if
3.02. Illegality
 
such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted. Each Lender agrees to designate a different Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for such notice and will not, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender.
. If the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (i) deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market in Dollars for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (ii) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (iii) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans in Dollars shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in Dollars or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03. Inability to Determine Rates
.
3.04. Increased Cost and Reduced Return; Capital Adequacy
(a) If any Lender reasonably determines that as a result of the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any Law, or such Lender's compliance therewith, there shall be any increase in the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding, maintaining or participating in Eurodollar Rate Loans, or a reduction in the amount received or receivable by such Lender in connection with any of the foregoing (excluding for purposes of this subsection (a) any such increased costs or reduction in amount resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or any foreign jurisdiction or any political subdivision of either thereof under the Laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Lending Office), then from time to time upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction; , that (x) such Lender shall be generally seeking, or intending generally to seek, comparable compensation from similarly situated borrowers under similar credit facilities (to the extent such Lender has the right under such similar credit facilities to do so) with respect to such change in or in the interpretation in any Law regarding such increased cost or reduction and (y) such additional amounts shall not be duplicative of any amounts to the extent otherwise paid by the Borrower under any other provision of this Agreement (including any reserve requirements included in determining the Eurodollar Rate).
Section 3.01
provided
(b) If any Lender reasonably determines that the introduction of any Law regarding capital adequacy or any change therein or in the interpretation thereof, or compliance by such Lender (or its Lending Office) therewith, has the effect of reducing the rate of return on the capital of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender as a consequence of such Lender's obligations hereunder (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy and such Lender's desired return on capital), then from time to time upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for such reduction; , that (x) such Lender shall be generally seeking, or intending generally to seek, comparable compensation from
provided
 
similarly situated borrowers under similar credit facilities (to the extent such Lender has the right under such similar credit facilities to do so) with respect to such change in or in the interpretation in any Law regarding capital requirements and (y) such additional amounts shall not be duplicative of any amounts to the extent otherwise paid by the Borrower under any other provision of this Agreement; that, this shall be deemed to apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities, regardless of the date adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
provided
further
Section 3.04(b)
(c) Each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office if, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, such designation will avoid the need for Borrower to pay any additional amount pursuant to this to such Lender and will not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the introduction of or change in Law or in the interpretation thereof giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the introduction of or change in Law or in the interpretation thereof giving rise to such increased cost or reduction is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
Section 3.04
Section 3.04
provided
Section 3.04
provided
further
. Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05. Compensation for Losses
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.16
excluding any loss of anticipated profits but including any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for Dollars for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
.
3.06. Matters Applicable to all Requests for Compensation
(a) A certificate of the Administrative Agent or any Lender claiming compensation under this and setting forth the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.
Article III
(b) Upon any Lender's making a claim for compensation under or or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 2.14
Section 10.16
. All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07. Survival
Article III
. The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to satisfaction, on or before the Termination Date, of the following conditions precedent (, that the respective obligations of the parties hereto set forth in and shall not be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent):
4.01. Conditions to Effective Date
provided
Section 2.08(a)
Article X
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals, facsimiles or electronic (pdf.) transmission (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Effective Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Effective Date) and each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, its legal counsel and each of the Lenders:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
(ii) Notes executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and is validly existing, in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization, including certified copies of the Borrower's Organization Documents, and certificates of good standing and tax clearance certificates;
(v) a favorable opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in the form set forth in ;
Exhibit E
(vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying, as of the Effective Date, (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied,
Sections 4.03(a)
(b)
 
(B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) the current Debt Ratings;
(vii) the Lenders shall have received at least five Business Days prior to the Effective Date such documentation and information as is reasonably requested prior to the Effective Date by the Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries required by U.S. regulatory authorities under applicable "know-your-customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Act; and
(viii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Effective Date pursuant to the Loan Documents shall have been paid.
(c) The Borrower shall have paid all Attorney Costs of the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced at least two Business Days prior to the Effective Date, plus such additional amounts of Attorney Costs as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of Attorney Costs incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that (i) such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (ii) the Administrative Agent may in its discretion waive this condition without obtaining the consent of the Required Lenders).
. The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Loan hereunder is subject to the Effective Date having occurred and satisfaction, on or before the Termination Date, of the following condition precedent:
4.02. Condition to Closing Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it, a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (x) confirming that (i) the Tender Offer has been consummated in accordance with the Merger Agreement without any waiver, amendment, supplement or other modification with respect to the Merger Agreement since February 6, 2011 that is materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders, unless the Arrangers' prior written consent thereto has been obtained (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), and (ii) as of the date of such consummation of the Tender Offer, no Material Adverse Effect exists and (y) attaching a true and complete copy of the Merger Agreement.
.
4.03. Conditions to all Borrowings
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Loan Notice (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the Closing Date having occurred and the following conditions precedent:
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in or any representations and warranties of the Borrower in any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct, in all material respects ( that such materiality qualifier shall not apply to the extent that any such representation or warranty is already qualified or modified by materiality in the text thereof), on and as of the date of such Borrowing (or, for the purposes of , as of the Effective Date), except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects ( that such materiality qualifier shall not apply to the extent that any such representation or warranty is already qualified or modified by
Article V
provided
Section 4.01(vi)
provided
 
materiality in the text thereof) as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , (i) the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (ii) the representations and warranties in subsection (c) of and subsection (b) of , need only be true and correct on and as of the Effective Date.
Section 4.03
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 5.05
Section 5.06
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Borrowing (or, for the purposes of , from the occurrence of the Effective Date).
Section 4.01(a)(vi)
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Loan Notice in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Loan Notice (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Borrowing.
Sections 4.03(a)
(b)
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required hereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Effective Date, or Closing Date (as applicable pursuant to this ), specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Article IV
Article IV
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
. The Borrower (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01. Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of the Borrower's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, (i) any Contractual Obligation to which the Borrower is a party, except to the extent such conflict could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which the Borrower or its property is subject; or (c) violate in any material respect any Law.
5.02. Authorization; No Contravention
. No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other
5.03. Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
 
Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than (i) any thereof as have been obtained, taken or made on or prior to the Effective Date and remain in full force and effect and (ii) any reports required to be filed by the Borrower with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; , that the failure to make any such filings referred to in this clause (ii) shall not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder.
provided
. This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws and general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
5.04. Binding Effect
.
5.05. Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness, in each case, to the extent required to be reflected thereon pursuant to GAAP consistently applied.
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to , and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments, and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness, in each case, to the extent required to be reflected thereon pursuant to GAAP consistently applied.
Section 6.01(b)
(c) As of the Effective Date, since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
. There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) as of the Effective Date (based on facts and circumstances known to the Borrower), are reasonably likely to result in an adverse determination and, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06. Litigation
 
. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.07. No Default
. Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary has good record title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
5.08. Ownership of Property; Liens
Section 7.01
. The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all Environmental Laws, except for any non-compliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09. Environmental Compliance
. The material properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates (it being understood that a program of self-insurance for first or other loss layers may be utilized).
5.10. Insurance
.
5.11. ERISA Compliance
(a) The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) (i) No ERISA Event likely to result in material liability for the Borrower has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any material liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any material liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could reasonably be expected to be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
.
5.12. Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
(a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock, or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
(b) The Borrower is not, nor is it required to be, registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished, including the Borrower's public filings made with the SEC) at the time they were so provided, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
5.13. Disclosure
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent (with a copy to be distributed by the Administrative Agent to each Lender), in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
6.01. Financial Statements
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a financial statement report and opinion of Ernst & Young or another independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in subsections (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(c)
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent (with a copy to be distributed by the Administrative Agent to each Lender), in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
6.02. Certificates; Other Information
(a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
 
(b) promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any final management letter submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Borrower by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
(c) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and current reports which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(d) promptly after the Borrower has notified the Administrative Agent of any intention by the Borrower to treat the Loans as being a "reportable transaction" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4), a duly completed copy of IRS Form 8886 or any successor form; and
(e) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or  or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide copies (including by telecopy or other electronic means) of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
Section 6.02(a)
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that (i) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (ii) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.
Public Lender
 
purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (iii) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
provided
however
Section 10.08
. Notify the Administrative Agent (x) in the case of clause (a) below, within five days of, and (y) in all other cases, promptly upon, any Responsible Officer of the Borrower obtaining actual knowledge:
6.03. Notices
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
(b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation, investigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws, to the extent such matters in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event which may result in material liability for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
(d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
(e) of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change in a Debt Rating.
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
. Pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable (subject to any applicable grace periods) all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets and all material lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property, unless (in each case) the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves, if any, in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.04. Payment of Obligations
. (a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing (or equivalent status) under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except (i) in a transaction permitted by or (ii) in the case of a Subsidiary of the Borrower, where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except in a transaction permitted by or to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05. Preservation of Existence, Etc
Section 7.02
Section 7.02
 
. (a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06. Maintenance of Properties
. Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its material properties and material business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons (it being understood that a program of self-insurance for first loss or other loss layers may be utilized).
6.07. Maintenance of Insurance
. Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08. Compliance with Laws
. Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all material financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.09. Books and Records
. Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired but not more than once a year unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that (a) when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice, (b) all visits or discussions by any Lender shall be coordinated through the Administrative Agent and (c) a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be present during any discussions with the Borrower's independent public accountants.
6.10. Inspection Rights
provided
however
. Do, and cause each of its ERISA Affiliates to do, each of the following: (a) maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code to maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code except where the failure to comply with this could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.11. Compliance with ERISA
Section 6.11
. Use the proceeds of the Borrowings (i) to finance in part (directly or indirectly through the backstop of commercial paper issued by the Borrower) the Acquisition, (ii) to pay related transaction costs, fees and expenses and (iii) for other general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including acquisitions, capital expenditures and share repurchases) in each case not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
6.12. Use of Proceeds
 
Subject to the proviso set forth in , so long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary (except that shall apply solely to the Borrower) to, directly or indirectly:
Section 7.01
Section 7.02
. Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01. Liens
(a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b) Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on ;
Schedule 7.01
(c) Liens for taxes not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted by the Borrower;
(d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves, if any, with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than for money borrowed), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business (including deposits to secure letters of credit issued to secure any such obligation);
(g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(h) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
Section 8.01(h)
(i) any interest or title of a lessor under any operating lease entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of its business and covering only the assets so leased;
(j) licenses, operating leases or subleases permitted hereunder granted to other Persons in the ordinary course of business not interfering in any material respect with the business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
(k) Liens arising from precautionary UCC financing statement filings with respect to operating leases or consignment arrangements entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
(l) Liens in favor of collecting banks arising by operation of law under Section 4-210 of the Uniform Commercial Code or, with respect to collecting banks located in the State of New York, under 4-208 of the Uniform Commercial Code and Liens in favor of banking institutions arising by operation of law encumbering deposits (including the right of set-off) held by such banking institutions incurred in the ordinary course of business and that are within the general parameters customary in the banking industry;
(m) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; provided that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
(n) Liens encumbering the Borrower's or any of its Subsidiary's equity interests or other investments in any joint venture (i) securing obligations (other than Indebtedness) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary under the joint venture agreement for such joint venture or (ii) in the nature of customary voting, equity transfer, redemptive rights or similar terms (other than Liens securing Indebtedness) under any such agreement;
(o) other Liens securing Indebtedness in an aggregate outstanding principal amount on any date not to exceed 10% of Net Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the most recently completed fiscal quarter of the Borrower prior to such date; and
(p) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (b) or (m) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Indebtedness secured thereby;
, , that this shall not become effective until the earlier to occur of (i) the amendment or waiver of section 7.03 in the Existing Credit Agreement such that there will be no conflict between the terms thereof and this (absent this proviso) and (ii) the date of termination of the Existing Credit Agreement and the repayment of all obligations thereunder (including pursuant to any refinancing or replacement thereof).
provided
however
Section 7.01
Section 7.01
. The Borrower may not merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into another Person if either (i) the Borrower is the surviving Person or (ii) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower is merged (any such Person, the "Successor") shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, in a writing executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent for delivery to each Lender, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which writing shall include, without limitation, a certification as to pro forma compliance with ), the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and the performance of the other Obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on the part of the Borrower to be performed or observed, as fully as if such Successor were originally named as the initial Borrower in this Agreement.
7.02. Fundamental Changes
Section 7.04
 
. Use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, in each case, in a manner which violates or contravenes the Margin Regulations. Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower will provide the Administrative Agent with written notice (a) promptly following any date on which more than 20% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Borrower) consist of or are represented by Margin Stock, and (b) at least 15 Business Days prior to any proposed transaction in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries proposes to directly or indirectly use the proceeds of any Borrowing to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose if, after giving effect to such proposed transaction, more than 20% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Borrower) will consist of or be represented by Margin Stock. Each such notice shall either (i) include a certification by the Borrower that, as of the date of such certificate and, in the case of a proposed transaction described in clause (b) above, also on a pro forma basis immediately after giving effect to such proposed transaction, not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Borrower) consist of or are represented by Margin Stock, or (ii) be accompanied by a legal opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent confirming compliance by the Borrower with the first sentence of this Section as of the date of such opinion and, in the case of a proposed transaction described in clause (b) above, also on a pro forma basis giving effect to such proposed transaction, together with appropriately executed and completed purpose statements on Form FR U-1.
7.03. Use of Proceeds
. Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be greater than 0.650:1
7.04. Consolidated Leverage Ratio
. Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01. Events of Default
(a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or any commitment facility, utilization or other fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , (with respect to the Borrower's existence only) or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.03(a)
6.05
6.12
Article VII
(c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after any Lender shall have given written notice thereof to the Borrower (through the Administrative Agent and in accordance with ); or
Other Defaults
Section 10.02(a)(i)
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
 
(e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment of principal or interest when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise but after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts but including Indebtedness under the Existing Credit Agreement) having an aggregate outstanding principal amount (including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event of default occurs under the terms of (and as defined in) any such instrument or agreement, the effect of which failure or other event of default is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, the acceleration of the maturity thereof, with the giving of notice if required, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; (ii) there shall occur a breach of section 7.01 of the Existing Credit Agreement (without giving effect to any amendment, waiver, consent or other modification thereof following the date hereof); or (iii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (or equivalent term, as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (or equivalent term, as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
Cross-Default
(f) . The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which, in the case of any such Subsidiary, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower contributed or was accountable for at least 5% of the revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such year, institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary which, in the case of any such Subsidiary, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower contributed or was accountable for at least 5% of the revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such year, becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 60 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary which, in the case of any such Subsidiary, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower contributed or was accountable for at least 5% of the revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis for such year (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Judgments
 
Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, and (B) there is a period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j) . Any material provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any material provision of any Loan Document; or the Borrower denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control with respect to the Borrower.
Change of Control
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02. Remedies Upon Event of Default
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
(c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in subsection (f) of , the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, in each case, without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
Section 8.01
. (a) After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received by the Administrative Agent on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03. Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and commitment fees) payable to the Lenders (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid commitment fees, and interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
. Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints, designates and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to it by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained elsewhere herein or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, nor shall the Administrative Agent have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender or participant, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Loan Documents with reference to the Administrative Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable Law. Instead, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any such provisions.
9.01. Appointment and Authorization of Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement or any other Loan Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and such sub-administrative agents as shall be deemed necessary by the Administrative Agent, and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct. Any such agent, sub-agent or other Person retained or employed pursuant to this shall have all the benefits and immunities provided to the Administrative Agent in this with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such Person in connection herewith or therewith, as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in this and in the definition of "Agent-Related Person" included such additional Persons with respect to such acts or omissions.
9.02. Delegation of Duties
Section 9.02
Article IX
Article IX
. No Agent-Related Person shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in connection with this Agreement or any
9.03. Liability of Administrative Agent
 
other Loan Document or the transactions contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with its duties expressly set forth herein), or (b) be responsible in any manner to any Lender or participant for any recital, statement, representation or warranty made by the Borrower or any officer thereof, contained herein or in any other Loan Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for any failure of the Borrower or any other party to any Loan Document to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Lender or participant to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof.
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, communication, signature, resolution, representation, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, facsimile, telex or telephone message, electronic mail message, statement or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under any Loan Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders as it deems appropriate and, if it so requests, it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document in accordance with a request or consent of the Required Lenders (or such greater number of Lenders as may be expressly required hereby in any instance) and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders.
9.04. Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default, except with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Agreement, describing such Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." The Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of its receipt of any such notice. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default as may be directed by the Required Lenders in accordance with ; , , that unless and until the Administrative Agent has received any such direction, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the Lenders.
9.05. Notice of Default
Article VIII
provided
however
. Each Lender acknowledges that no Agent-Related Person has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereafter taken, including any consent to and acceptance of any assignment or review of the affairs of the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Lender as to any matter, including whether Agent-Related Persons have disclosed material information in their possession. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, and all applicable bank or other
9.06. Credit Decision; Disclosure of Information by Administrative Agent
 
regulatory Laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and made its own decision to enter into this Agreement and to extend credit to the Borrower. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigations as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates which may come into the possession of any Agent-Related Person.
. Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Lenders shall indemnify upon demand each Agent-Related Person (to the extent not reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), pro rata, and hold harmless each Agent-Related Person from and against any and all Indemnified Liabilities incurred by it; , , that no Lender shall be liable for the payment to any Agent-Related Person of any portion of such Indemnified Liabilities to the extent determined in a final, nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agent-Related Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct; , , that no action taken in accordance with the directions of the Required Lenders shall be deemed to constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct for purposes of this Section. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender shall reimburse the Administrative Agent upon demand for its ratable share of any costs or out-of-pocket expenses (including Attorney Costs) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any document contemplated by or referred to herein, to the extent that the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by or on behalf of the Borrower. The undertaking in this Section shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, the payment of all other Obligations and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
9.07. Indemnification of Administrative Agent
provided
however
provided
however
. MSSF and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Borrower and its Affiliates as though MSSF were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Lenders. The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, MSSF or its Affiliates may receive information regarding the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of the Borrower or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that the Administrative Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans, MSSF shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include MSSF in its individual capacity.
9.08. Administrative Agent in its Individual Capacity
. The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent resigns under this Agreement, the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor administrative agent for the Lenders, which successor administrative agent shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no successor administrative agent is appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may appoint, after
9.09. Successor Administrative Agent
 
consulting with the Lenders and the Borrower, a successor administrative agent from among the Lenders. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as successor administrative agent hereunder, the Person acting as such successor administrative agent shall succeed to all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the term "Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor administrative agent and the retiring Administrative Agent's appointment, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such retiring Administrative Agent or any other Lender. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this and and shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement. If no successor administrative agent has accepted appointment as Administrative Agent by the date which is 30 days following a retiring Administrative Agent's notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Lenders shall perform all of the duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above.
Article IX
Sections 10.04
10.05
. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.10. Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.08
10.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.08
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
. None of the Lenders or other Persons identified on the facing page or signature pages of this Agreement as a "syndication agent," "documentation agent," "co-agent," "book manager," "lead manager," "arranger," "lead arranger" or "co-arranger" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than, in the case of such Lenders, those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Lenders or other Persons so identified shall have or be deemed to have any
9.11. Other Agents; Arrangers and Managers
 
fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any of the Lenders or other Persons so identified in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall (subject to and as further provided below with respect to any Defaulting Lender):
10.01. Amendments, Etc
provided
however
Section 2.14
(a) waive any condition set forth in or without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
Section 4.02
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal (but without limiting ), interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 2.06(b)
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
provided
however
(e) change , , , , or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments or commitment reductions required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.03
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.12
Section 8.03
(f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii)  may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender, (y)
provided
further
Section 10.07(h)
 
, , , , and may not be changed in any manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the consent of such Lender and (z) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender which affects such Defaulting Lender differently than other Lenders or affected Lenders, as the case may be, shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) amendments and other modifications entered into pursuant to shall only be required to be executed by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower so long as the requirements of are complied with and (ii) the Administrative Agent may, with the agreement of the Borrower only, amend, modify or supplement this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents to cure any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency herein or therein.
Section 2.03
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.12
Section 8.03
Section 2.13
Section 2.13
.
10.02. Notices and Other Communications; Facsimile Copies
(a) . Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission). All such written notices shall be mailed, faxed or delivered to the applicable address, facsimile number or (subject to subsection (c) below) electronic mail address, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
General
(i) if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
All such notices and other communications shall be deemed to be given or made upon the earlier to occur of (A) actual receipt by the relevant party hereto and (B) (1) if delivered by hand or by courier, when signed for by or on behalf of the relevant party hereto; (2) if delivered by mail, four Business Days after deposit in the mails, postage prepaid; (3) if delivered by facsimile, when sent and receipt has been confirmed by telephone; and (4) if delivered by electronic mail (which form of delivery is subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below), when delivered as provided in subsection (b) below; , , that notices and other communications to the Administrative Agent pursuant to shall not be effective until actually received by such Person. In no event shall a voicemail message be effective as a notice, communication or confirmation hereunder.
provided
however
Article II
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the
 
intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
Change of Address, Etc
(e) .The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify each Agent-Related Person and each Lender from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
 
. No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03. No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
. The Borrower agrees (a) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development, preparation, negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any amendment, waiver, consent or other modification of the provisions hereof and thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby are consummated), and the consummation and administration of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including all Attorney Costs, and (b) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent and each Lender for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement, attempted enforcement, or preservation of any rights or remedies under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (including all such costs and expenses incurred during any "workout" or restructuring in respect of the Obligations and during any legal proceeding, including any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law), including all Attorney Costs. The foregoing costs and expenses shall include all search, filing, recording, title insurance and appraisal charges and fees and recording, documentary and similar taxes related thereto, and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the cost of independent public accountants and other outside experts retained by the Administrative Agent or any Lender. All amounts due under this shall be paid promptly and, in any case under clause (b) of this , within 20 Business Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this Section shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations.
10.04. Costs and Expenses
Section 10.04
Section 10.04
. Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless each Agent-Related Person, each Lender and their respective Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, counsel, agents and attorneys-in-fact (collectively the "") from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, claims, demands, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses and disbursements (including Attorney Costs) of any kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any such Indemnitee in any way relating to or arising out of or in connection with (a) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (b) any Commitment or Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (c) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory (including any investigation of, preparation for, or defense of any pending or threatened claim, investigation, litigation or proceeding) and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto (all the foregoing, collectively, the ""); that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, claims, demands, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from (i) the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (ii) a material breach by such Indemnitee of its express obligations under the applicable Loan Document or (y) result from claims of any of the Lenders solely against one or more Lenders (and not by one or more Lenders against the Administrative Agent or any Arranger in such capacity) that have not resulted from the action,
10.05. Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitees
Indemnified Liabilities
provided
 
inaction, participation or contribution of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or any of their respective officers, directors, stockholders, partners, members, employees, agents, representatives or advisors. No Indemnitee shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of any information or other materials obtained through IntraLinks or other similar information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement, nor shall any Indemnitee have any liability to any party hereto or its Affiliates for any special, indirect or consequential damages relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or arising out of such Indemnitee's activities in connection herewith or therewith (whether before or after the date hereof). All amounts due under this shall be payable within 20 Business Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Section 10.05
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.
10.06. Payments Set Aside
.
10.07. Successors and Assigns
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) or (i) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Indemnitees) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lender
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
 
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this , the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
Section 10.07
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or a Federal Reserve Bank; and
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender or a Federal Reserve Bank.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth on ; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
Schedule 10.07
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vii) . No such assignment shall be made to a Person that, through its Lending Offices, is not capable of lending in Dollars to the Borrower without the imposition of any additional Taxes.
No Assignment Resulting in Additional Taxes
 
(viii) . No such assignment shall be made to any Person that is not engaged in the making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of business.
No Assignment to Non-Lenders
(ix) . No such assignment shall be made to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in the clause (ix).
No Assignment to Defaulting Lender
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the consent of the Borrower is required pursuant to this in connection with any proposed assignment, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to such proposed assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within ten Business Days after having received written notice (sent in accordance with ) of such proposed assignment.
Section 10.07(b)
Section 10.02(a)(i)
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this , from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be (A) entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment and (B) subject to obligations in and ). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this . An Eligible Assignee of a Lender shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than such Lender would have been entitled to receive as of the date such Eligible Assignee became a party to this Agreement; , , that this limitation shall not apply to any Eligible Assignee designated by the Borrower pursuant to .
Section 10.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
10.05
Section 3.01(e)
(f)
Section 10.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
provided
however
Section 10.16
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's
Participations
Participant
 
rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this , the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this . To the extent permitted by Law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Section 10.01
Section 10.07
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.07
Section 10.09
provided
Section 2.12
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant's Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.15
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including, without limitation, any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g) . The words "," "," "," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state Laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
execution
signed
signature
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; provided that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under and ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement
Special Purpose Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
Section 2.11(c)(ii)
Sections 3.01
3.04
 
shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $3,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender that is a Fund may create a security interest in all or any portion of the Loans owing to it and the Note, if any, held by it to the trustee for holders of obligations owed, or securities issued, by such Fund as security for such obligations or securities, provided that unless and until such trustee actually becomes a Lender in compliance with the other provisions of this , (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Lender from any of its obligations under the Loan Documents and (ii) such trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Lender under the Loan Documents even though such trustee may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise.
Section 10.07
(j) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, a Granting Lender may grant to an Affiliate of such Granting Lender identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (a "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement; , , that if a Designated Affiliate elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any Designated Affiliate nor the exercise by any Designated Affiliate of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under and ), (ii) no Designated Affiliate shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by a Designated Affiliate hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Designated Affiliate may with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $3,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender.
Designated Affiliates
Designated Affiliate
provided
however
Section 2.11(c)(ii)
Sections 3.01
3.04
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives who need to know such information for the purposes set forth in this and who have been advised of and acknowledge their obligation to keep such information confidential in accordance with this , (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable Laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this
10.08. Confidentiality
Section 10.08
Section 10.08
 
Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this , to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap, derivative or similar transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the prior written consent of the Borrower, (A) to any rating agency when required by it and (B) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower; , , that the source of such information was not known by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Affiliate, as the case may be, to be bound by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or contractual obligation of confidentiality with respect to such information.
Section 10.08
Section 10.08
provided
however
For purposes of this , "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or any of its businesses, other than any such information that is publicly available or otherwise available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower; , , that the source of such information was not known by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, to be bound by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or contractual obligation of confidentiality with respect to such information. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
Section 10.08
Information
provided
however
. In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to the Borrower, any such notice being waived by the Borrower (on its own behalf) to the fullest extent permitted by Law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held by, and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all Obligations owing to such Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document, now or hereafter existing, irrespective of whether or not the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall have made demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such Obligations may be contingent or unmatured or denominated in a currency different from that of the applicable deposit or indebtedness or are owed to a branch or office of or such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this are in addition to their other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
10.09. Set-off
Section 10.09
provided
however
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the
10.10. Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
 
Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or electronic (pdf.) transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.11. Counterparts
Section 4.01
. This Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, comprises the complete and integrated agreement of the parties on the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral, on such subject matter. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement. Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof.
10.12. Integration
provided
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Borrowing, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied (other than unasserted indemnification, tax gross up, expense reimbursement or yield protection obligations, in each case, for which no claim has been made).
10.13. Survival of Representations and Warranties
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.14. Severability
. (a) (i) Each Lender that is not a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a "") shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, prior to receipt of any payment subject to withholding under the Code (or upon accepting an assignment of an interest herein), two duly signed completed copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Foreign Lender and entitling it to an exemption from, or reduction of, withholding tax on all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement) or IRS
10.15. Tax Forms
Foreign Lender
 
Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement) or such other evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that such Foreign Lender is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding tax, including any exemption pursuant to Section 881(c) of the Code. Thereafter and from time to time, each such Foreign Lender shall (A) promptly submit to the Administrative Agent such additional duly completed and signed copies of one of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may then be available under then current United States laws and regulations to avoid, or such evidence as is satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any available exemption from or reduction of, United States withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement, (B) promptly notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (C) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws that the Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Foreign Lender.
(ii) Each Foreign Lender, to the extent it does not act or ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any sums paid or payable to such Lender under any of the Loan Documents (for example, in the case of a typical participation by such Lender), shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the date when such Foreign Lender ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any such sums paid or payable, and at such other times as may be necessary in the determination of the Administrative Agent (in the reasonable exercise of its discretion), (A) two duly signed completed copies of the forms or statements required to be provided by such Lender as set forth above, to establish the portion of any such sums paid or payable with respect to which such Lender acts for its own account that is not subject to U.S. withholding tax, and (B) two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-8IMY (or any successor thereto), together with any information such Lender chooses to transmit with such form, and any other certificate or statement of exemption required under the Code, to establish that such Lender is not acting for its own account with respect to a portion of any such sums payable to such Lender.
(iii) The Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Foreign Lender or to pay any additional amount to any Foreign Lender under , (A) with respect to any Taxes required to be deducted or withheld on the basis of the information, certificates or statements of exemption such Lender transmits with an IRS Form W-8IMY pursuant to this , (B) if such Lender shall have failed to satisfy the foregoing provisions of this ; that if such Lender shall have satisfied the requirement of this on the date such Lender became a Lender and any date such Lender has ceased to act for its own account with respect to any payment under any of the Loan Documents, nothing in this shall relieve the Borrower of its obligation to pay any amounts pursuant to in the event that, as a result of any change in any applicable law, treaty or governmental rule, regulation or order, or any change in the official interpretation, administration or application thereof, such Lender is no longer properly entitled to deliver forms, certificates or other evidence at a subsequent date establishing the fact that such Lender or other Person for the account of which such Lender receives any sums payable under any of the Loan Documents is not subject to withholding or is subject to withholding at a reduced rate, (C) if the obligation to withhold or to pay such additional amounts existed under the Laws of the United States on the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement, (D) if the obligation to withhold or to pay such additional amounts is imposed under FATCA, (E) with respect to any SPC, to the extent provided in , (F) with respect to any Participant, to the extent provided in ,
Section 3.01
Section 10.15(a)
Section 10.15(a)
provided
Section 10.15(a)
Section 10.15(a)
Section 3.01
Section 10.07(h)
Section 10.07(e)
 
(G) with respect to any Eligible Assignee, to the extent provided in , (H) with respect to any Designated Affiliate, to the extent provided in , or (I) if the obligation to indemnify or pay such additional amounts arose after the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement and is in respect of any payment under this Agreement made by the Borrower, for any reason other than a change in any applicable law, rule, regulation or order of the United States or any subdivision thereof or any change in the official interpretation administration or application thereof after the date such Foreign Lender became a party to this Agreement.
Section 10.07(b)
Section 10.07(j)
(iv) The Administrative Agent may, without reduction, withhold any Taxes required to be deducted and withheld from any payment under any of the Loan Documents with respect to which the Borrower is not required to pay additional amounts under or this .
Section 3.01
Section 10.15(a)
(b) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Administrative Agent two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is not subject to back-up withholding. If such Lender fails to deliver such forms, then the Administrative Agent may withhold from any interest payment to such Lender an amount equivalent to the applicable back-up withholding tax imposed by the Code, without reduction.
(c) If any Governmental Authority asserts that the Administrative Agent did not properly withhold or backup withhold, as the case may be, any tax or other amount from payments made to or for the account of any Lender, such Lender shall indemnify the Administrative Agent therefor, including all penalties and interest, any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on the amounts payable to the Administrative Agent under this Section, and costs and expenses (including Attorney Costs) of the Administrative Agent. The obligation of the Lenders under this Section shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall provide the Borrower with a copy of any forms or other documents provided by any Lender to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and this .
Section 3.01(e)
Section 10.15
. Under any circumstances set forth herein providing that the Borrower shall have the right to replace a Lender as a party to this Agreement, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or if any Lender refuses to give its consent to any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document that requires the consent of each Lender to be effective pursuant to and the Borrower and the Required Lenders have given their consent to such amendment or waiver, then the Borrower may, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, replace such Lender by causing such Lender to assign and delegate all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (with the assignment fee to be paid by the Borrower in such instance) pursuant to to one or more other Lenders or Eligible Assignees procured by the Borrower that shall assume such obligations; , , that (a) if the Borrower elects to exercise such right with respect to any Lender pursuant to , it shall be obligated to replace all Lenders that have made similar requests for compensation pursuant to or ; and (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to all principal, accrued interest, accrued fees and other amounts owing to such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents through the date of replacement (including any amounts payable pursuant to ); and the Borrower shall release such Lender from its obligations under the Loan Documents. Any Lender being replaced shall execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption with respect to such Lender's Commitment and outstanding Loans.
10.16. Replacement of Lenders
Section 10.01
Section 10.07(b)
provided
however
Section 3.06(b)
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.05
 
.
10.17. Governing Law
(a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE; PROVIDED THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
(b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK CITY OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF SUCH STATE, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND LENDERS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS. THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF , WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR OTHER DOCUMENT RELATED THERETO. THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE.
FORUM NON CONVENIENS
. EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING UNDER ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THE DEALINGS OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OF THEM WITH RESPECT TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING, AND WHETHER FOUNDED IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE; AND EACH PARTY HEREBY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY, AND THAT ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS SECTION WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE SIGNATORIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
10.18. Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
. If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary for any Lender Party to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures such Lender Party could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to such Lender Party hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender Party of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, such Lender Party may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the
10.19. Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender Party from the Borrower in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender Party against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to such Lender Party in such currency, such Lender Party agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
.In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facility provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, and the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any of the Arrangers has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. The Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
10.20. No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
10.21. USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
Each Lender hereby confirms that it has not relied upon any Margin Stock of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as collateral in extending or maintaining its Commitment hereunder.
10.22. Margin Stock.
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
 
SCHEDULE 7.01
 
 
SCHEDULE 10.02
DANAHER CORPORATION:
Danaher Corporation
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Suite 800W
Washington, D.C. 20037-1701
Website Address: www.danaher.com
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
Administrative Agent's Office
(for payments and Requests for Borrowings):
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.
Loan Documentation and Operations
1 Pierrepont Plaza, 7th Floor
Brooklyn, NY
Attention: Lucy Dixon
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Electronic Mail:
 
SCHEDULE 10.07
The Administrative Agent will charge a processing and recordation fee (an "") in the amount of $3,500 for each assignment; , , that in the event of two or more concurrent assignments to members of the same Assignee Group (which may be effected by a suballocation of an assigned amount among members of such Assignee Group), the Assignment Fee will be $3,500 plus the amount set forth below:
Assignment Fee
provided
however
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1
Date: ,
                    
            
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
The Borrower hereby requests, on behalf of itself (select one):
 
 
 
 
[Type of Loan requested]
 
[The Borrowing requested herein complies with the proviso to the first sentence of Section 2.01 of the Agreement.]
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
                                        
Lender
Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest on Loans made by the Lender shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars and in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
Financial Statement Date: ,
            
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                                        
1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by Section 6.01(a) of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by Section 6.01(b) of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it.]
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
 
4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                    
                    
 
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                                        
Statement Date
 
 
EXHIBIT D
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
1
Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each]
Assignor
2
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
Assignee
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
[for each Assignee, indicate [Affiliate][Approved Fund] of []]
identify Lender
3. : Danaher Corporation
Borrower
4. : Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as the administrative agent under the Credit Agreement.
Administrative Agent
5. : Credit Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011, among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent.
Credit Agreement
6. Assigned Interest[s]:
 
[7. : ]
Trade Date
                                        
9
8. : , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
Effective Date
                    
    
 
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][[the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 10.07(b)(iii), (v), (vi) and (vii) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 10.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by [the][such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
    
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees
Payments
 
and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the][the relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy or electronic (pdf.) transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT E
June , 2011
    
To each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent
parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of that certain Credit Agreement of even date herewith (the "Credit Agreement") among the Borrower, each lender from time to time party thereto (the "Lenders"), and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent. This opinion is being furnished pursuant to Section 4.01(a)(v) of the Credit Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Credit Agreement. In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have examined:
a. the Credit Agreement;
b. the Notes, if any, of even date herewith issued by the Borrower to any Lender;
c. the Borrower's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, certified by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Certificate of Incorporation") as of June 10, 2011;
d. a Certificate of the Secretary of the Borrower, dated as of the date hereof (the "Secretary's Certificate"), attesting to (i) true, correct and complete copies of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Borrower (the "By-Laws"), and the resolutions of the board of directors of the Borrower, as each of the foregoing is in effect on the date hereof, and (ii) the authorization, incumbency and signatures of certain officers of the Borrower;
e. a Certificate of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, dated as of June 10, 2011, attesting to the legal existence and corporate good standing for the Borrower in the State of Delaware; and
f. such other documents, instruments and certificates (including, but not limited to, certificates of public officials and officers of the Borrower) as we have considered necessary for purposes of this opinion.
The documents referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above are referred to collectively as the "Credit Documents."
In our examination of the documents described above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity and competence of all individuals, the completeness and accuracy of all corporate records provided to us, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all copies of documents submitted to us as copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. We have not reviewed the corporate minute books of the Borrower.
 
In rendering this opinion, we have relied, as to all questions of fact material to this opinion, upon certificates of public officials and officers of the Borrower and upon the representations and warranties of the Borrower and the Lenders in the Credit Documents. We have not conducted any independent investigation of, or attempted to verify independently, such factual matters. We have not conducted a search of any electronic databases or the dockets of any court, administrative or regulatory body or agency in any jurisdiction.
For purposes of this opinion, we have assumed that (i) the Credit Documents and all other instruments executed and delivered in connection therewith have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all parties thereto other than the Borrower, and that all such other parties have all requisite power and authority, and have taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver, and to perform their obligations under, the Credit Documents and all other instruments executed and delivered in connection therewith and (ii) no consent, approval, authorization, declaration or filing by or with any governmental commission, board or agency is required by any party to the Credit Documents other than the Borrower for the valid execution and delivery of, and performance of their obligations under, such documents. We have also assumed that each of the Credit Documents and all other instruments executed and delivered in connection therewith is the valid and binding obligation of each party thereto other than the Borrower and is enforceable against such other parties in accordance with its respective terms. We do not render any opinion as to the application of or compliance with any federal or state law or regulation to the power, authority or competence of any party to the Credit Documents other than the Borrower.
We are opining herein solely as to the state laws of the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law statute, and the federal laws of the United States of America. We express no opinion herein with respect to compliance by the Borrower with state securities or "blue sky" laws or with any state or federal securities anti-fraud laws. We express no opinion with respect to any foreign laws, and we express no opinion as to the validity or enforceability of any Credit Documents under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction.
The opinions expressed in paragraph 1 below, insofar as they relate to the organization, valid existence and good standing of the Borrower, are based solely upon the certificate referred to in clause (e) above, are rendered as of the date of such certificate, and are limited accordingly. We express no opinion as to the tax good standing of the Borrower in any jurisdiction.
We express no opinion as to the enforceability of any right to set off against any deposit account of the Borrower maintained with any Lender to the extent that (a) the funds on deposit in said accounts have been accepted by such Lender with an intent to apply such funds to a pre existing claim rather than to hold such funds subject to withdrawals in the ordinary course, (b) the set off is directed against checks held by such Lender for collection only and not for deposit, (c) the funds on deposit in said accounts are in any manner special accounts which, by the express terms on which they are created are made subject to the rights of a third party, (d) the obligations against which any deposit account is set off are not due and payable, or (e) the funds on deposit in the account are subject to a security interest granted to such Lender.
Our opinions below are qualified to the extent that they may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer or similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, (ii) statutory or decisional law concerning recourse by creditors to security in the absence of notice or hearing, (iii) duties and standards imposed on creditors and parties to contracts, including, without limitation, requirements of good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and (iv) general principles of equity, including the availability of any equitable or specific remedy, or the successful assertion of any equitable defense. We assume that (i) there has been no mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding, or fraud, duress, or undue influence in
 
connection with the negotiation, execution or delivery of the Credit Documents, and (ii) there are and have been no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is and has been no usage of trade or course of prior dealing among the parties that would, in either case, vary, supplement or qualify the terms of the Credit Documents. We also express no opinion herein as to any provision of any Credit Document (a) which may be deemed or construed to waive any right of the Borrower, (b) to the effect that rights and remedies are not exclusive, and to the effect that every right or remedy is cumulative and may be exercised in addition to or with any other right or remedy and does not preclude recourse to one or more other rights or remedies, (c) relating to the effect of invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of a Credit Document on the validity or enforceability of any other provision thereof, (d) requiring the payment of penalties, consequential damages or liquidated damages, (e) which is in violation of public policy, including, without limitation, any provision relating to indemnification and contribution with respect to securities law matters, (f) purporting to indemnify any person against his, her or its own negligence or intentional misconduct, (g) which provides that the terms of any Credit Document may not be waived or modified except in writing, (h) purporting to establish evidentiary standards, or (i) purporting to establish in advance standards of commercial reasonableness.
For purposes of our opinions rendered below, we have assumed that the facts and law governing the future performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Credit Documents will be identical to the facts and law governing its performance on the date of this opinion.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and to the comments and qualifications following these opinions, it is our opinion that:
1. The Borrower is a corporation organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has all requisite corporate power and authority to conduct its business as it is, to our knowledge, currently conducted.
2. The Borrower has all requisite corporate power to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, each Credit Document and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
3. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Credit Document have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Borrower.
4. Each of the Credit Documents has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower, and constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its respective terms.
5. The execution and delivery by the Borrower of each of the Credit Documents, the performance by the Borrower of the respective terms and provisions thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, do not (a) violate the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Borrower, (b) violate the provisions of the state laws of the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law statute or federal laws of the United States of America applicable to the Borrower or (c) conflict with, violate, breach or constitute a default under, or result in the imposition of any lien on the Borrower's property or assets pursuant to, the agreements or indentures listed on Exhibit A attached hereto.
6. No authorization, approval or consent of, and no filing or registration with, any governmental or regulatory authority or agency of the United States of America, the State of Delaware or the State of New York is required on the part of the Borrower for the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of the Credit Documents.
 
This opinion is provided to you as a legal opinion only and not as a guaranty or warranty of the matters discussed herein. This opinion is based upon currently existing facts, statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions, and is rendered as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of the foregoing sources of law or subsequent developments in law or changes in facts or circumstances which might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is rendered only to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and is solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the benefit of their counsel, in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Documents, and may not be used by the Administrative Agent or any Lender for any other purpose, nor may this opinion be furnished to, quoted to or relied upon by any other person for any purpose, without our prior written consent.
Very truly yours,
 


