FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20021025211548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 30, 2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Arizona 1-8962 86-0512431 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 400 North Fifth Street, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (602) 250-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) NONE (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS DIVIDEND INCREASE AND POLICY On October 23, 2002, the Company's board of directors increased the common dividend by $0.10 per share per year effective with the dividends payable on December 1, 2002. This increase results in an indicated annual dividend of $1.70 per share. The Company intends to continue growing the common dividends in the future; such growth will be dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow, and financial market conditions. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) EXHIBITS. EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary (cover page and list of contents). 99.2 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary for the periods ended September 30, 2002 and 2001. 99.3 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2002 (year-to-date). 99.4 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2001. 99.5 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2000. 99.6 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 1999. 99.7 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation earnings variance explanations for the periods ended September 30, 2002 and 2001 and condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months, nine months and twelve months ended September 30, 2002 and 2001. 99.8 Glossary of Terms. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business. This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at www.pinnaclewest.com. The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Registrant) Dated: October 25, 2002 By: Barbara M. Gomez ------------------------------------ Barbara M. Gomez Treasurer 3

Exhibit 99.1 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 LIST OF CONTENTS 2002 THIRD-QUARTER SUMMARY 2002 YEAR-TO-DATE 2001 BY QUARTER 2000 BY QUARTER 1999 BY QUARTER See the Glossary of Terms on this website for definitions of terms used in this summary. Quarters may not sum to totals due to rounding.

Exhibit 99.2 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 1 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 28 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market loss of $3 million was transferred to "realized" for the third quarter of 2002. Lines 28 and 32 include amounts totaling $2 million of realized revenues for the third quarter of 2002. See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of September 30, 2002, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $159 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2002, $15 million; 2003, $30 million; 2004, $34 million; 2005 and thereafter, $80 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 64 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $4 million was transferred to "realized" for the thind quarter of 2002. A $4 million realized gain is included in the $19 million on line 51 for the third quarter of 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending August 2002 and August 2001. See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 7

Exhibit 99.3 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 1 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 28 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market loss of $3 million was transferred to "realized" for the third quarter of 2002. Lines 28 and 32 include amounts totaling $2 million of realized revenues for the third quarter of 2002. See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of September 30, 2002, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $159 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2002, $15 million; 2003, $30 million; 2004, $34 million; 2005 and thereafter, $80 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 64 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $4 million was transferred to "realized" for the third quarter of 2002. A $4 million realized gain is included in the $19 million on line 51 for the third quarter of 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending August 2002 and August 2001. See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 7

Exhibit 99.4 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 1 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $1 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $1 million of realized revenues for the year 2001. See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of December 31, 2001, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $138.0 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2002, $43.0 million; 2003, $22.6 million; 2004, $23.6 million; 2005 and thereafter, $48.8 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 63 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $11 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. A $11 million realized gain is included in the $117 million on line 51 for the total year 2001. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 7

Exhibit 99.5 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms. Page 1 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $2 million of realized revenues for the year 2000. See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 63 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. A $2 million realized gain is included in the $69 million on line 51 for the total year 2000. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 7

Exhibit 99.6 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms. Page 1 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $0 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 1999. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $0 million of realized revenues for the year 1999. See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- (a) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 7
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 7

Exhibit 99.7 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION EARNINGS VARIANCE EXPLANATIONS FOR PERIODS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 AND 2001 This discussion explains the changes in our earnings for the three, nine and twelve months ended September 30, 2002 and 2001. Consolidated income statements for the three, nine and twelve months ended September 30, 2002 and 2001 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on or before November 14, 2002. We suggest this section be read in connection with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 and the Pinnacle West Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2002 and June 30, 2002. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). EARNINGS CONTRIBUTIONS BY SUBSIDIARY AND BUSINESS SEGMENT We have two principal business segments (determined by products, services and the regulatory environment), which consist of our regulated retail electricity business, regulated traditional wholesale electricity business and related activities (electric retail segment) and our competitive business activities (marketing and trading segment). Our electric retail business segment includes activities related to electricity transmission and distribution, as well as electricity generation. Our marketing and trading business segment includes activities related to wholesale marketing and trading and APS Energy Services' commodity related energy services. The other amounts primarily include activities related to SunCor and El Dorado. The following tables summarize net income and segment details for the three, nine and twelve months ended September 30, 2002 and the comparable prior year periods for Pinnacle West and each of our subsidiaries (dollars in millions):
(a) Consistent with APS' October 2001 ACC filing, APS entered into agreements with its affiliates to buy power. The agreements reflect a price based on the fully-dispatchable dedication of the Pinnacle West Energy generating assets to APS' native load customers. (b) APS recorded the cumulative effects of a change in accounting for derivatives related to the adoption in 2001 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." 2
EARNINGS VARIANCE EXPLANATIONS Throughout these explanations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our electric retail segment and marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's - Emerging Issues Taskforce (EITF) finalized certain guidance related to energy trading activities in EITF 02-3 "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." The new guidance, which was effective July 1, 2002, required all energy trading activities to be presented on a net basis in revenues and that prior period amounts be restated. We have implemented this presentation change effective in the third quarter of 2002. Real estate gross margin refers to real estate revenues less real estate operations costs. Other gross margin refers to other operating revenues less other operating expenses, which includes El Dorado's investment in NAC International, Inc. (NAC), which we began consolidating on our financial statements in July 2002. It also includes amounts related to APS Energy Services' energy consulting services. OPERATING RESULTS - THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the three months ended September 30, 2002 was $101 million compared with $150 million for the same period in the prior year. We recognized a $12 million after-tax loss in the three months ended September 30, 2001 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No. 133. Our income before accounting change for the three months ended September 30, 2002 was $101 million compared with $162 million for the same period in the prior year. The period-to-period decrease was primarily the result of lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities, severance costs of $25 million pretax recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to a voluntary workforce reduction and losses at El Dorado primarily related to its investment in its subsidiary, NAC, in the third quarter of 2002. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. The regulated retail comparison was negatively impacted by higher costs for purchased power and gas, weather impacts and the 1.5% electric retail price reduction that took effect July 1, 2002. These factors were offset by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, lower operating costs related to generation reliability, customer growth of 3.1% and higher average usage per customer for the third quarter of 2002. 3
The major factors that increased (decreased) income before accounting change were as follows (dollars in millions): (a) Net recognized marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) increased $42 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. 4
MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $54 million lower in the three-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to higher sales volumes ($4 million); * increased realized revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to higher sales volumes ($10 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to lower unit margins on higher volumes being delivered ($40 million increase); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility, resulting in lower volumes ($108 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $10 million higher in the three-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of higher sales volumes and higher natural gas prices ($4 million); * increased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing activities in the current period primarily due to higher sales volumes ($7 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($1 million decrease). ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $254 million lower in the three-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to wholesale sales for retail load hedge management, as a result of lower prices ($265 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($15 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($33 million); * decreased retail revenues related to a reduction in retail electricity prices ($9 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($2 million net increase). Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $242 million lower in the three-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power ($251 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($5 million); 5
* increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($11 million); * change in mark-to-market for hedged natural gas and purchased power costs for future period deliveries ($10 million increase); * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned nuclear and coal plant outages ($15 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($8 million net increase). The decrease in other gross margin of $13 million was primarily due to losses recorded on El Dorado's investment in NAC. The decrease in operations and maintenance expense of $6 million was due to lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs of $24 million. These factors were partially offset by severance costs of $25 million related to a 2002 voluntary workforce reduction and other costs. Other expense increased $7 million primarily due to higher net investment losses in the current period and higher miscellaneous non-operating costs. Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, increased $8 million primarily due to higher debt balances. OPERATING RESULTS - NINE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH NINE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 was $230 million compared with $276 million for the same period in the prior year. We recognized a $15 million after-tax loss in the nine months ended September 30, 2001 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No. 133. Our income before accounting change for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 was $230 million compared with $291 million for the same period in 2001. The period-to-period decrease was the result of lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities, severance costs of $25 million pretax recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to a voluntary workforce reduction, and losses related to El Dorado's investment in NAC, partially offset by increased earnings contributions from our regulated retail electricity and real estate operations. The regulated retail comparison was favorably impacted by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, customer growth and higher average usage per customer, lower costs for purchased power and gas related to lower market prices, and lower generation reliability expenses, partially offset by the effects of milder weather and retail electricity price decreases. The real estate results benefited primarily from more sales activities. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower volumes and prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. 6
The major factors that increased (decreased) income before accounting change were as follows (dollars in millions): 7
(a) Net recognized marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) decreased $20 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $421 million lower in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to lower market prices and resulting lower sales volumes ($124 million); * decreased revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($132 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to higher volumes being delivered ($47 million decrease); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility, resulting in lower volumes ($118 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $211 million lower in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of lower natural gas prices and lower sales volumes ($52 million); * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing activities in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($167 million); and * change in prior period mark-to-market fuel costs for current period deliveries ($8 million net increase). ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $529 million lower in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($65 million); * decreased revenues related to wholesale sales for retail load hedge management, as a result of lower prices and lower sales volumes ($439 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($50 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($68 million); * decreased retail revenues related to reductions in retail electricity prices ($22 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($21 million net decrease). 8
Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $641 million lower in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($65 million); * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power ($441 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($29 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($31 million); * change in mark-to-market for hedged natural gas and purchased power costs for future period deliveries ($5 million decrease); * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned nuclear and coal plant outages ($123 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($9 million net decrease). The increase in real estate gross margin of $10 million was primarily due to increased sales activities. The decrease in other gross margin of $13 million was primarily due to losses recorded on El Dorado's investment in NAC. The decrease in operations and maintenance expense of $17 million was primarily due to lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs of $38 million. Operation and maintenance expense was also lower as a result of the reversal of $4 million of a $10 million reserve recorded in the prior period for the California energy situation. These decreases were partially offset by severance costs of $25 million related to a 2002 voluntary workforce reduction and other costs. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense of $8 million primarily related to lower regulatory asset amortization, in accordance with APS' 1999 regulatory settlement, partially offset by increased depreciation on higher plant balances. Other income decreased $9 million primarily due to an insurance recovery recorded in the prior period related to environmental remediation costs. Other expense increased $7 million primarily due to losses recorded on El Dorado's investments in the current period, partially offset by lower miscellaneous non-operating costs. Interest expense increased $8 million primarily due to higher debt balances, partially offset by lower interest rates. 9
OPERATING RESULTS - TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2002 was $266 million compared with $319 million for the same period in the prior year. We recognized a $15 million after-tax loss in the twelve months ended September 30, 2001 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No. 133. Our income before accounting change for the twelve months ended September 30, 2002 was $266 million compared with $334 million for the same period a year earlier. The period-to-period comparison was lower due to lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities, severance costs of $25 million pretax recorded in the third quarter of 2002 relating to a voluntary workforce reduction, and losses related to El Dorado's investment in NAC, partially offset by increased earnings contributions from our regulated retail electricity and real estate operations. The regulated retail comparison was favorably impacted by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, lower costs for purchased power and gas related to lower market prices, customer growth and higher average usage per customer, partially offset by the effects of milder weather and retail electricity price decreases. The real estate results benefited primarily from more sales activities. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower volumes and prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. 10
The major factors that increased (decreased) income before accounting change were as follows (dollars in millions): 11
(a) Net marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) recognized for the current period decreased $23 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $586 million lower in the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to lower market prices and resulting lower sales volumes ($198 million); * decreased revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($176 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to higher volumes being delivered ($107 million decrease); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility, resulting in lower volumes ($105 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $350 million lower in the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of lower sales volumes and lower natural gas prices ($90 million); * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing activities in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($267 million); and * change in prior period mark-to-market fuel costs for current period deliveries ($7 million increase). ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $548 million lower in the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($79 million); * decreased revenues related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($458 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($50 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($82 million); * decreased retail revenues related to reductions in retail electricity prices ($28 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($15 million net decrease). 12
Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $671 million lower in the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2002, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($79 million); * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power prices ($446 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($29 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($43 million); * change in mark-to-market for hedged natural gas and purchased power costs for future period deliveries ($4 million decrease); * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned outages ($148 million); and * miscellaneous factors ($8 million net decrease). The increase in real estate gross margin of $12 million was primarily due to increased sales activities. The decrease in other gross margin of $13 million was primarily due to losses on El Dorado's investment in NAC. The decrease in operations and maintenance expense of $15 million was primarily due to lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs of $37 million. Operations and maintenance expense was also lower as a result of the reversal of $4 million of a $10 million reserve recorded in the prior period for the California energy situation, partially offset by severance costs of $25 million related to a 2002 voluntary workforce reduction and other costs. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses of $5 million primarily related to lower regulatory asset amortization, in accordance with APS' 1999 regulatory settlement, partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization on higher property, plant and equipment balances. Other income decreased $5 million primarily due to an insurance recovery recorded in the prior period related to environmental remediation costs and other costs. Net interest expense increased $7 million primarily because of higher debt balances related to our generation expansion program, partially offset by the increase in capitalized interest on our generation expansion program and lower interest rates. 13
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 14
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 15
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 16

Exhibit 99.8 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Glossary of Terms Arizona Job Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in total non-farm payroll employment for the state of Arizona, non-seasonally adjusted. Building Permits - Metro Phoenix The number of residential dwellings permitted to be built by authorized agencies in Maricopa County, Arizona. Single-family refers to detached buildings intended to be occupied by one family each. Multi-family permits represent the number of units authorized to be built in condominium, townhouse and apartment complexes. Capacity Factor The ratio of the average operating load of an electric power generating unit for a period of time to the capacity rating of the unit during that period. Change in Mark-To-Market Gains The gross margin related to the change (Losses) For Future-Period in mark-to-market value in the current Deliveries period of transactions which have been entered into during the current period or prior periods for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period. Current Period Effects The net effect of the total revenue or gross margins realized on delivery of commodities in the period being measured, and the amount of prior-period mark-to-market (gains) losses on contracts delivered during period. The net effect of transferring prior-period mark-to-market to realized does not affect total revenues, gross margin or earnings. Degree-Days -- Cooling A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for cooling purposes. Cooling degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures less than the base temperature are ignored. Degree-Days -- Heating A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for heating purposes. Heating degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures greater than the base temperature are ignored.
-2- Electricity Marketing and Trading All wholesale sales of electricity not - - Delivered accounted for in sales under traditional contracts or retail load hedge management. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak Palo Verde substation during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak Palo Verde substation during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Generation Capacity Out of Service Total capacity required and economic, and Replaced for Native Load yet unavailable for retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts due to scheduled or unscheduled outages. Measured in megawatts per day. Generation Sales Other Than Native Sales of electricity from generation Load owned by the company that is over and above the amount required to serve retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts. Generation Production -- Coal Amount of net energy produced by coal-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-3- Generation Production Amount of net energy predominately - -- Gas/Oil/Other produced by natural gas and oil-fueled generators. A small amount of energy from hydroelectric and solar power plants is also included. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Generation Production -- Nuclear Amount of net energy produced by nuclear-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Gigawatt-hour (GWH) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 megawatt-hours or 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Revenues from marketing and trading - - Pretax activities (other than retail sales, traditional wholesale sales and retail load hedge management) less the costs of the related commodities, with mark-to-market gains or losses, before income taxes. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Marketing and trading gross margin, by Commodity -- Pretax before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the underlying commodities. Realized and Mark-to-Market Marketing and trading gross margin, Components before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the period of delivery and whether the margin is realized or mark-to-market. Realized margins relate to commodities that have been delivered. Mark-to-market margins relate to commodities that have delivery dates in future periods. Mark-To-Market Adjustments to revenues or costs to recognize value of sales and purchase contracts, for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period, at current forward wholesale prices. Megawatt (MW) One million watts. Megawatt-hour (MWh) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 kilowatt-hours.
-4- Prior Period Mark-To-Market (Gains) The reversal of the gross margin related Losses on Contracts Delivered During to mark-to-market transactions entered Current Period into in prior periods for which the commodities were delivered in the current period. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition or earnings recognition, because in accordance with mark-to-market accounting, the margin was already recorded in the prior period. A negative amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a gain recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal positive amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. A positive amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a loss recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal negative amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. Purchased Power - Firm Load Power purchased from wholesale market sources used to serve regulated retail demand and traditional wholesale contracts. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Purchased Power - Marketing and Power purchased from wholesale market Trading sources used to serve marketing and trading sales not served by company-owned generation. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Realized Margin on Delivered Marketing and trading gross margin Commodities related to electricity and other commodities that were delivered in the then-current period. Retail Customer Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in the number of retail customers. Retail Electricity Usage Total retail sales for a period divided by the average retail customers for the same period. Measured in kilowatt-hours per average customer. Retail Load Hedge Management Wholesale sales to liquidate electricity purchases originally intended to meet firm load during peak times, which purchases were not needed ultimately for firm load. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Retail Sales Sales of electricity made directly to retail customers or ultimate customers. Residential retail sales are sales to households. Business retail sales include commercial, industrial, irrigation, and streetlighting sales. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-5- System Peak Demand The demand for electricity during the one hour of highest use each month. Measured in megawatts. Traditional Contracts Wholesale sales resulting from unique cost-based, long-term contracts held by the company with various entities for the supply of electricity at agreed-upon prices. Weather Normalized Adjusted to exclude the effects of abnormal weather patterns.


