FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20020722213122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 30, 2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Arizona 1-8962 86-0512431 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 400 North Fifth Street, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (602) 250-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) NONE (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) EXHIBITS. EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION --- ----------- 99.1 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary for June 30, 2002 (cover page and list of contents). 99.2 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary for the periods ended June 30, 2002 and 2001. 99.3 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2002 (year-to-date). 99.4 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2001. 99.5 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2000. 99.6 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 1999. 99.7 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation earnings variance explanations for the periods ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 and condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months, six months and twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and 2001. 99.8 Glossary of Terms. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business. This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at www.pinnaclewest.com. The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Registrant) Dated: July 22, 2002 By: Barbara M. Gomez ------------------------------------ Barbara M. Gomez Treasurer 3

Exhibit 99.1 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 LIST OF CONTENTS 2002 SECOND-QUARTER SUMMARY 2002 YEAR-TO-DATE 2001 BY QUARTER 2000 BY QUARTER 1999 BY QUARTER See the Glossary of Terms on this website for definitions of terms used in this summary. Quarters may not sum to totals due to rounding.

Exhibit 99.2 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 37 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 32 are included in lines 28 and 31. For example, line 32 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $8 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2002. Lines 28 and 31 include amounts totaling $8 million of realized revenues for the second quarter of 2002. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of June 30, 2002, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $133 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2002, $12 million; 2003, $28 million; 2004, $29 million; 2005 and thereafter, $64 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 57 and in line 61 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 53 are included in line 49. The opposites of amounts included in line 54 are included in line 51. For example, line 53 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $9 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2002. A $9 million realized gain is included in the $24 million on line 49 for the second quarter of 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001 Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending May 2002 and May 2001. See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.3 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 37 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 32 are included in lines 28 and 31. For example, line 32 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $8 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2002. Lines 28 and 31 include amounts totaling $8 million of realized revenues for the second quarter of 2002. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of June 30, 2002, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $133 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2002, $12 million; 2003, $28 million; 2004, $29 million; 2005 and thereafter, $64 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 57 and in line 61 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 53 are included in line 49. The opposites of amounts included in line 54 are included in line 51. For example, line 53 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $9 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2002. A $9 million realized gain is included in the $24 million on line 49 for the second quarter of 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending May 2002 and May 2001. See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.4 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 37 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 32 are included in lines 28 and 31. For example, line 32 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $1 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. Lines 28 and 31 include amounts totaling $1 million of realized revenues for the year 2001. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of December 31, 2001, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $138.0 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2002, $43.0 million; 2003, $22.6 million; 2004, $23.6 million; 2005 and thereafter, $48.8 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 57 and in line 61 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 53 are included in line 49. The opposites of amounts included in line 54 are included in line 51. For example, line 53 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $11 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. A $11 million realized gain is included in the $117 million on line 49 for the total year 2001. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2001 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.5 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 37 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 32 are included in lines 28 and 31. For example, line 32 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. Lines 28 and 31 include amounts totaling $2 million of realized revenues for the year 2000. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 57 and in line 61 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 53 are included in line 49. The opposites of amounts included in line 54 are included in line 51. For example, line 53 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. A $2 million realized gain is included in the $69 million on line 49 for the total year 2000. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2000 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.6 Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 37 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 32 are included in lines 28 and 31. For example, line 32 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $0 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 1999. Lines 28 and 31 include amounts totaling $0 million of realized revenues for the year 1999. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- (a) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 7/23/2002 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 1999 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.7 Last Updated 7/23/2002 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Earnings Variance Explanations For Periods Ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 This discussion explains the changes in our earnings for the three, six and twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and 2001. Consolidated income statements for the three, six and twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on or before August 14, 2002. We suggest this section be read in connection with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). EARNINGS CONTRIBUTIONS BY SUBSIDIARY The following table summarizes net income for the three, six and twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and the comparable prior-year periods for Pinnacle West and each of our subsidiaries (dollars in millions): - ---------- (a) These amounts primarily include marketing and trading activities. APS amounts also included some marketing and trading activities in 2001, although APS completed the transition of such activities to the parent company in 2001. BUSINESS SEGMENTS We have two principal business segments (determined by products, services and the regulatory environment), which consist of our regulated retail electricity business, regulated traditional wholesale electricity business, and related activities (electric retail business segment) and our competitive business activities (marketing and trading business segment). Our retail business segment currently includes activities related to electricity transmission and distribution, as well as electricity generation. Our marketing and trading business
segment currently includes activities related to wholesale marketing and trading and APSES' competitive energy services. The other amounts include activities related to SunCor and El Dorado. The following table summarizes net income by business segment for the three, six and twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and the comparable prior year periods (dollars in millions): We recorded the cumulative effects of a change in accounting for derivatives related to our adoption in 2001 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." EARNINGS VARIANCE EXPLANATIONS Throughout these explanations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our electric retail segment and marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. Real estate gross margin refers to real estate revenues less real estate operations costs. OPERATING RESULTS - THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the three months ended June 30, 2002 was $75 million compared with $67 million for the same period in the prior year. The period-to-period increase was primarily the result of increased earnings contributions from our regulated retail electricity and real estate operations that were partially offset by lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities. The retail comparison was favorably impacted by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, lower costs for purchased power and gas related to lower market prices, customer growth and higher average usage per customer, partially offset by the effects of milder weather. The real estate results benefited primarily from more sales activities. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower volumes and prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. 2
The major factors that increased (decreased) net income were as follows (dollars in millions): - ---------- (a) Net marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) recognized for the current period decreased $20 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. 3
ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $242 million lower in the three-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($54 million); * decreased revenues related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($171 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($26 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($21 million); * decreased retail revenues related to a reduction in retail electricity prices ($7 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($5 million net decrease). Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $330 million lower in the three-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($54 million); * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power ($217 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($10 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth excluding weather effects ($9 million); and * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned outages ($58 million). MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $373 million lower in the three-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to lower market prices and resulting lower sales volumes ($49 million); * decreased realized revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($277 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to higher volumes being delivered ($13 million decrease); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility, resulting in lower volumes ($34 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $294 million lower in the three-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: 4
* decreased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of lower sales volumes and lower natural gas prices ($23 million); and * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($271 million). The increase in real estate gross margin of $13 million was primarily due to increased sales activities. The decrease in operations and maintenance expense of $3 million was due to lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs. Operations and maintenance expense was also lower as a result of the reversal of $4 million of a $10 million reserve for the California energy situation. These factors were partially offset with increased employee and other costs. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense of $4 million primarily related to lower regulatory asset amortization, in accordance with APS' 1999 regulatory settlement, partially offset by increased depreciation on higher plant balances. Net other income (expense) decreased $11 million primarily due to an insurance recovery recorded in the prior period related to environmental remediation costs and losses recorded on El Dorado's investments in the current period, partially offset by lower miscellaneous non-operating costs. OPERATING RESULTS - SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the six months ended June 30, 2002 was $129 million compared with $126 million for the same period in the prior year. We recognized a $3 million after-tax loss in the six months ended June 30, 2001 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No.133. Our income before accounting change for the six months ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 was $129 million in both periods. The period-to-period activity was the result of increased earnings contributions from our regulated retail electricity and real estate operations that were partially offset by lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities. The retail comparison was favorably impacted by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, lower costs for purchased power and gas related to lower market prices, customer growth and higher average usage per customer, partially offset by the effects of milder weather and a retail electricity price decrease. The real estate results benefited primarily from more sales activities. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower volumes and prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. 5
The major factors that increased (decreased) income before accounting change were as follows (dollars in millions): - ---------- (a) Net marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) recognized for the current period decreased $14 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. 6
ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $275 million lower in the six-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($79 million); * decreased revenues related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($174 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($35 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($29 million); * decreased retail revenues related to a reduction in retail electricity prices ($13 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($3 million net decrease). Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $398 million lower in the six-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($79 million); * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power ($210 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($13 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($12 million); and * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned outages ($108 million). MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $667 million lower in the six-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to lower market prices and resulting lower sales volumes ($128 million); * decreased revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($441 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to higher volumes being delivered ($37 million decrease); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility, resulting in lower volumes ($61 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $521 million lower in the six-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: 7
* decreased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of lower sales volumes and lower natural gas prices ($57 million); * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($472 million); and * change in prior period mark-to-market fuel costs for current period deliveries ($8 million net increase). The increase in real estate gross margin of $15 million was primarily due to increased sales activities. The decrease in operations and maintenance expense of $11 million was primarily due to lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs. Operation and maintenance expense was also lower as a result of the reversal of $4 million of a $10 million reserve recorded in the prior period for the California energy situation. These decreases were partially offset by increased employee benefit and other costs. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense of $9 million primarily related to lower regulatory asset amortization, in accordance with APS' 1999 regulatory settlement, partially offset by increased depreciation on higher plant balances. Net other income (expense) decreased $9 million primarily due to an insurance recovery recorded in the prior period related to environmental remediation costs and losses recorded on El Dorado's investments in the current period, partially offset by lower miscellaneous non-operating costs. OPERATING RESULTS - TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 COMPARED WITH TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2001 Our consolidated net income for the twelve months ended June 30, 2002 was $315 million compared with $285 million for the same period in the prior year. We recognized a $12 million after-tax loss in the twelve months ended June 30, 2002 and a $3 million after-tax loss in the twelve months ended June 30, 2001 as cumulative effects of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No.133. Our income before accounting change for the twelve months ended June 30, 2002 was $327 million compared with $288 million for the same period a year earlier. The period-to-period comparison benefited from increased earnings contributions from our regulated retail electricity and real estate operations that were partially offset by lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities and higher operations and maintenance expenses. The retail comparison was favorably impacted by lower replacement costs for power plant outages, lower costs for purchased power and gas related to lower market prices, customer growth and higher average usage per customer, partially offset by the effects of milder weather and a retail electricity price decrease. The real estate results benefited primarily from more sales activities. The comparison for marketing and trading activities reflects lower volumes and prices in the wholesale power markets in the western United States. 8
The major factors that increased (decreased) income before accounting change were as follows (dollars in millions): - ---------- (a) Net marketing and trading gains (excluding the effects of generation sales other than native load) recognized for the current period decreased $16 million. (b) Essentially all of our marketing and trading activities are structured activities. This means our portfolio of forward sales positions is economically hedged with a portfolio of forward purchases that protects the economic value of the sales transactions. 9
ELECTRIC RETAIL SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $477 million lower in the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($177 million); * decreased revenues related to wholesale sales, as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($301 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($14 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($44 million); * decreased retail revenues related to a reduction in retail electricity prices ($28 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($1 million net decrease). Electric retail segment purchased power and fuel costs were $625 million lower in the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower sales volumes and lower prices ($177 million); * decreased costs related to lower prices for hedged natural gas and purchased power prices ($331 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($5 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($17 million); * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned outages ($126 million); and * miscellaneous factors ($3 million net decrease). MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $616 million lower in the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues from generation sales other than native load due to lower market prices and resulting lower sales volumes ($212 million); * decreased revenues from other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($359 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market gains on contracts delivered during the current period due to higher volumes being delivered ($80 million decrease); and * higher mark-to-market gains for future period deliveries primarily as a result of greater market liquidity and greater price volatility, resulting in higher volumes ($35 million). 10
Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $524 million lower in the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2002, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased fuel costs related to generation sales other than native load primarily because of lower sales volumes and lower natural gas prices ($100 million); * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing and trading in the current period primarily due to lower prices ($431 million); * change in prior period mark-to-market fuel costs for current period deliveries related to accounting for derivatives ($8 million increase); and * other miscellaneous factors ($1 million decrease). The increase in real estate gross margin of $16 million was primarily due to increased sales activities. The increase in operations and maintenance expense of $29 million was primarily due to higher costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs. Operations and maintenance expense was also higher due to increased employee benefit and other costs. These factors were partially offset as a result of the reversal of $4 million of a $10 million reserve recorded in the prior period for the California energy situation. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses of $12 million primarily related to lower regulatory asset amortization, in accordance with APS' 1999 regulatory settlement, partially offset by increased depreciation on higher plant balances. Net other income (expense) improved $11 million primarily due to lower losses recorded on El Dorado's investments in the current period than in the prior period. These reductions were partially offset by the effects of an insurance recovery recorded in the prior period related to environmental remediation costs. Net interest expense decreased $7 million primarily because of the increase in capitalized interest on our generation expansion program and the effects of lower interest rates. These reductions in net interest expense more than offset the increase in interest expense on higher debt balances primarily related to our generation expansion program. 11
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 12
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 13
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) 14

Exhibit 99.8 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Glossary of Terms Arizona Job Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in total non-farm payroll employment for the state of Arizona, non-seasonally adjusted. Building Permits - Metro Phoenix The number of residential dwellings permitted to be built by authorized agencies in Maricopa County, Arizona. Single-family refers to detached buildings intended to be occupied by one family each. Multi-family permits represent the number of units authorized to be built in condominium, townhouse and apartment complexes. Capacity Factor The ratio of the average operating load of an electric power generating unit for a period of time to the capacity rating of the unit during that period. Change in Mark-To-Market Gains The gross margin related to the change (Losses) For Future-Period in mark-to-market value in the current Deliveries period of transactions which have been entered into during the current period or prior periods for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period. Current Period Effects The net effect of the total revenue or gross margins realized on delivery of commodities in the period being measured, and the amount of prior-period mark-to-market (gains) losses on contracts delivered during period. The net effect of transferring prior-period mark-to-market to realized does not affect total revenues, gross margin or earnings. Degree-Days -- Cooling A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for cooling purposes. Cooling degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures less than the base temperature are ignored. Degree-Days -- Heating A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for heating purposes. Heating degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures greater than the base temperature are ignored.
-2- Electricity Marketing and Trading All wholesale sales of electricity not - - Delivered accounted for in sales under traditional contracts or retail load hedge management. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak Palo Verde substation during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak Palo Verde substation during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Generation Capacity Out of Service Total capacity required and economic, and Replaced for Native Load yet unavailable for retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts due to scheduled or unscheduled outages. Measured in megawatts per day. Generation Sales Other Than Native Sales of electricity from generation Load owned by the company that is over and above the amount required to serve retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts. Generation Production -- Coal Amount of net energy produced by coal-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-3- Generation Production Amount of net energy predominately - -- Gas/Oil/Other produced by natural gas and oil-fueled generators. A small amount of energy from hydroelectric and solar power plants is also included. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Generation Production -- Nuclear Amount of net energy produced by nuclear-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Gigawatt-hour (GWH) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 megawatt-hours or 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Revenues from marketing and trading - - Pretax activities (other than retail sales, traditional wholesale sales and retail load hedge management) less the costs of the related commodities, with mark-to-market gains or losses, before income taxes. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Marketing and trading gross margin, by Commodity -- Pretax before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the underlying commodities. Realized and Mark-to-Market Marketing and trading gross margin, Components before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the period of delivery and whether the margin is realized or mark-to-market. Realized margins relate to commodities that have been delivered. Mark-to-market margins relate to commodities that have delivery dates in future periods. Mark-To-Market Adjustments to revenues or costs to recognize value of sales and purchase contracts, for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period, at current forward wholesale prices. Megawatt (MW) One million watts. Megawatt-hour (MWh) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 kilowatt-hours.
-4- Prior Period Mark-To-Market (Gains) The reversal of the gross margin related Losses on Contracts Delivered During to mark-to-market transactions entered Current Period into in prior periods for which the commodities were delivered in the current period. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition or earnings recognition, because in accordance with mark-to-market accounting, the margin was already recorded in the prior period. A negative amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a gain recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal positive amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. A positive amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a loss recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal negative amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. Purchased Power - Firm Load Power purchased from wholesale market sources used to serve regulated retail demand and traditional wholesale contracts. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Purchased Power - Marketing and Power purchased from wholesale market Trading sources used to serve marketing and trading sales not served by company-owned generation. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Realized Margin on Delivered Marketing and trading gross margin Commodities related to electricity and other commodities that were delivered in the then-current period. Retail Customer Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in the number of retail customers. Retail Electricity Usage Total retail sales for a period divided by the average retail customers for the same period. Measured in kilowatt-hours per average customer. Retail Load Hedge Management Wholesale sales to liquidate electricity purchases originally intended to meet firm load during peak times, which purchases were not needed ultimately for firm load. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Retail Sales Sales of electricity made directly to retail customers or ultimate customers. Residential retail sales are sales to households. Business retail sales include commercial, industrial, irrigation, and streetlighting sales. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-5- System Peak Demand The demand for electricity during the one hour of highest use each month. Measured in megawatts. Traditional Contracts Wholesale sales resulting from unique cost-based, long-term contracts held by the company with various entities for the supply of electricity at agreed-upon prices. Weather Normalized Adjusted to exclude the effects of abnormal weather patterns.


