FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20030501214856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 31, 2003 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Arizona 1-8962 86-0512431 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 400 North Fifth Street, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (602) 250-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) NONE (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) EXHIBITS. EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary (cover page and list of contents). 99.2 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation quarterly consolidated statistical summary for the periods ended March 31, 2003 and 2002. 99.3 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2003. 99.4 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2002. 99.5 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2001. 99.6 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 2000. 99.7 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation consolidated statistics by quarter for 1999. 99.8 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation earnings variance explanations for the periods ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 and condensed consolidated statements of income for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002. 99.9 Glossary of Terms. 99.10 Earnings News Release. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business. This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at www.pinnaclewest.com. The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Registrant) Dated: May 1, 2003 By: Barbara M. Gomez ------------------------------------ Barbara M. Gomez Treasurer 2

Exhibit 99.1 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 List of Contents 2003 FIRST-QUARTER SUMMARY 2003 YEAR-TO-DATE 2002 YEAR-TO-DATE 2001 BY QUARTER 2000 BY QUARTER 1999 BY QUARTER See the Glossary of Terms on this website for definitions of terms used in this summary. Quarters may not sum to totals due to rounding.

Exhibit 99.2 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 39 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 35 are included in lines 31 and 34. For example, line 35 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $3 million was transferred to "realized" for the first quarter of 2003. Lines 31 and 34 include amounts totaling $3 million of realized revenues for the first quarter of 2003. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of March 31, 2003, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $35 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2003, $2 million; 2004, $10 million; 2005, $10 million; 2006 and thereafter, $13 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 60 and in line 64 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 52. The opposites of amounts included in line 57 are included in line 54. For example, line 56 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $5 million was transferred to "realized" for the first quarter of 2003. A $5 million realized gain is included in the $24 million on line 52 for the first quarter of 2003. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Periods Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect three month and twelve month ended February 2002 and February 2003. See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.3 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 39 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 35 are included in lines 31 and 34. For example, line 35 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $3 million was transferred to "realized" for the first quarter of 2003. Lines 31 and 34 include amounts totaling $3 million of realized revenues for the first quarter of 2003. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of March 31, 2003, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $35 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: remainder of 2003, $2 million; 2004, $10 million; 2005, $10 million; 2006 and thereafter, $13 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 60 and in line 64 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 52. The opposites of amounts included in line 57 are included in line 54. For example, line 56 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $5 million was transferred to "realized" for the first quarter of 2003. A $5 million realized gain is included in the $24 million on line 52 for the first quarter of 2003. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2003 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect three month and twelve month ended February 2002 and February 2003. See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.4 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 28 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $8 million was transferred to "realized" for the fourth quarter of 2002. Lines 28 and 32 include amounts totaling $9 million of realized revenues for the fourth quarter of 2002. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of December 31, 2002, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $41 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2003, $4 million; 2004, $10 million; 2005 and thereafter, $27 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 64 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $4 million was transferred to "realized" for the fourth quarter of 2002. A $4 million realized gain is included in the $23 million on line 51 for the fourth quarter of 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2002 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.5 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $1 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $1 million of realized revenues for the year 2001. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of December 31, 2001, Pinnacle West had accumulated mark-to-market net gains of $138.0 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2002, $43.0 million; 2003, $22.6 million; 2004, $23.6 million; 2005 and thereafter, $48.8 million. - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 63 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $11 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2001. A $11 million realized gain is included in the $117 million on line 51 for the total year 2001. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2001 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.6 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $2 million of realized revenues for the year 2000. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 59 and in line 63 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 55 are included in line 51. The opposites of amounts included in line 56 are included in line 53. For example, line 55 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $2 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2000. A $2 million realized gain is included in the $69 million on line 51 for the total year 2000. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 2000 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.7 Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 - ---------- (a) The net effect on net electric operating revenues from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 38 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 33 are included in lines 29 and 32. For example, line 33 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $0 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 1999. Lines 29 and 32 include amounts totaling $0 million of realized revenues for the year 1999. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 - ---------- (a) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated 5/2/03 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Consolidated Statistics By Quarter 1999 - ---------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.8 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION EARNINGS VARIANCE EXPLANATIONS FOR PERIODS ENDED MARCH 31, 2003 AND 2002 This discussion explains the changes in our consolidated earnings for the three month and twelve month periods ended March 31, 2003 and 2002. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 on or before May 15, 2003. We suggest this section be read in connection with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conform to our current period presentation. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). EARNINGS CONTRIBUTIONS BY SUBSIDIARY AND BUSINESS SEGMENT We have three principal business segments (determined by products, services and the regulatory environment): * our regulated electricity segment, which consists of regulated traditional retail and wholesale electricity businesses and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution; * our marketing and trading segment, which consists of our competitive energy business activities, including wholesale marketing and trading and APS Energy Services' commodity-related energy services; and * our real estate segment, which consists of SunCor's real estate development and investment activities. The following tables summarize net income and segment details for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2003 and the comparable prior periods for Pinnacle West and each of our subsidiaries (dollars in millions):
(a) See "Real Estate Activities" discussion below. (b) Consistent with APS' October 2001 ACC filing, APS entered into agreements with its affiliates to buy power through June 2003. The agreements reflect a price based on the fully-dispatchable dedication of the Pinnacle West Energy generating assets to APS' Native Load customers. Under the ACC "Track B" order, APS is required to solicited bids for certain estimated capacity and energy requirements for periods beginning July 1, 2003. Pinnacle West Energy is eligible to bid to supply APS' electricity requirements. (c) APS Energy Services' net income prior to 2003 and El Dorado's net income are primarily reported before income taxes. The income tax expense or benefit for these subsidiaries was recorded at the parent company. (d) Primarily includes activities related to El Dorado in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, principally El Dorado's investment in NAC International, Inc. (NAC). For the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, we recorded a pretax loss of $55 million related to NAC contracts with two customers. (e) In the fourth quarter of 2002, Pinnacle West Energy recorded a charge related to the cancellation of Redhawk Units 3 and 4 of approximately $30 million after income taxes ($49 million pretax). (f) We recorded a $66 million after tax charge as of October 1, 2002 for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for trading activities, for the early adoption of EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." (g) APS recorded a $12 million after tax charge in June 2001 for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives related to the adoption of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." RESULTS OF OPERATIONS GENERAL Throughout the following explanations of our results of operations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our regulated electricity segment and our marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. Our real estate segment gross margin refers to real estate revenues less real estate operations costs of SunCor. Other gross margin refers to other operating revenues less other operating expenses, which includes El Dorado's investment in NAC, which we began consolidating in our financial statements in July 2002. Other gross margin also includes amounts related to APS Energy Services' energy consulting services. OPERATING RESULTS - THREE MONTH PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2002 Our consolidated net income for the three months ended March 31, 2003 was $25 million compared with $54 million for the prior year. Included in 2003 income is $5 million of after tax income related primarily to SunCor's sale of 2
its water utility company accounted for as discontinued operations in our real estate segment (see "Real Estate Activities" below). Our income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2003 was $20 million compared with $53 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The period-to-period decrease of $33 million was primarily due to: * lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities, reflecting lower liquidity and higher price volatility in the wholesale power markets in the western United States, partially offset by lower mark-to-market reversals due to the adoption of EITF 02-3 ($17 million, after tax); * higher depreciation, operations and maintenance, and interest expenses related to new power plants in service ($10 million, after tax); * higher operating costs primarily related to the timing of power plant overhauls and higher pension and other postretirement benefit costs ($7 million, after tax); * decreased earnings contributions from our regulated electricity activities, reflecting retail electricity price decreases, the effects of milder weather and higher replacement power cost for plant outages, partially offset by retail customer growth, ($5 million after tax); and * other miscellaneous factors ($2 million, after tax). The above decreases were partially offset by: * higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($5 million, after tax); and * the settlement of an NAC contract dispute involving Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company ($3 million, after tax). For additional details, see the following discussion. 3
The major factors that increased (decreased) income from continuing operations were as follows (dollars in millions): REGULATED ELECTRICITY SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Regulated electricity segment revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $5 million higher in the three months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: 4
* increased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of higher sales volumes and higher prices ($1 million); * increased revenues related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, primarily as a result of higher prices ($3 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($11 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth, excluding weather effects ($14 million); * decreased retail revenues related to a reduction in retail electricity prices ($5 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($3 million, net increase). Regulated electricity segment purchased power and fuel costs were $13 million higher in the three months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of higher sales volumes and higher prices ($1 million); * increased costs related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, primarily as a result of higher prices ($3 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($5 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($7 million); * increased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to higher market prices and more unplanned outages ($4 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($3 million, net increase). MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $87 million higher in the three months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased revenues from generation sales other than Native Load primarily due to higher prices and higher sales volumes ($36 million); * higher realized wholesale revenues net of related mark-to-market reversals primarily due to higher volumes ($41 million); * increased revenues from higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($30 million); * higher revenues related to the adoption of EITF 02-3 ($8 million); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future delivery primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and higher price volatility ($28 million). Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $108 million higher in the three months ended March 31, 2003, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased fuel costs related to generation sales other than Native Load primarily because of higher natural gas prices and higher sales volumes ($35 million); * increased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing activities in the current period primarily due to higher volumes and higher prices ($53 million); * increased purchased power costs related to higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($22 million); and * change in mark-to-market fuel costs for future delivery ($2 million decrease). 5
OTHER INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS The decrease in real estate segment gross margin of $2 million was primarily due to lower land sales. In addition, as discussed in "Real Estate Activities" below, SunCor had an $8 million ($5 million after tax) gain on the sale of its water utility company which was reported as income from discontinued operations in the three months ended March 31, 2003. The increase in other gross margin of $5 million was primarily due to NAC's settlement of a contract dispute involving Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company. The increase in operations and maintenance expense of $16 million was due to increased operating costs related to the timing of power plant overhauls, increased pension and other postretirement benefit costs, new power plants in service and other costs. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $6 million primarily related to increased plant balances and new power plants, partially offset by lower regulatory asset amortization. Net interest expense increased $7 million primarily because of higher debt balances related to our generation construction program and lower capitalized interest on our generation construction program due to completion of Redhawk Units 1 and 2 in mid-2002. OPERATING RESULTS - TWELVE MONTH PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2002 Our consolidated net income for the twelve months ended March 31, 2003 was $121 million compared with $306 million for the prior year. Included in the 2003 period was a $66 million after tax charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for trading activities for the early adoption of EITF 02-3 on October 1, 2002 and $14 million of after tax income related to certain discontinued operations in our real estate segment (see "Real Estate Activities" below). Included in the 2002 period was a $12 million after tax charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for derivatives, as required by SFAS No. 133. Our income from continuing operations for the twelve months ended March 31, 2003 was $173 million compared with $317 million for the prior year. The period-to-period decrease of $144 million was primarily due to: * lower earnings contributions from our marketing and trading activities, reflecting lower liquidity and lower price volatility in the wholesale power markets in the western United States, partially offset by lower mark-to-market reversals due to the adoption of EITF 02-3 ($104 million, after tax); * losses related to our investment in NAC ($32 million, after tax); * higher operations and maintenance expenses related to the Redhawk Units 3 and 4 cancellation charge and 2002 severance costs, partially offset by lower generation reliability costs ($32 million, after tax); * higher depreciation, operations and maintenance, and interest expenses related to new power plants in service ($27 million, after tax); * higher pension and other postretirement benefit costs ($7 million, after tax); and 6
* miscellaneous factors, net ($4 million, after tax). The above decreases were partially offset by: * increased earnings contributions from our regulated electricity activities, reflecting lower replacement power costs for power plant outages, retail customer growth and higher average usage per customer, partially offset by the effects of milder weather and retail electricity price decreases ($41 million, after tax); and * higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($21 million, after tax). 7
For additional details, see the following discussion. The major factors that increased (decreased) income from continuing operations were as follows (dollars in millions): 8
REGULATED ELECTRICITY SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Regulated electricity segment revenues related to our regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses were $512 million lower in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased revenues related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower prices and lower sales volumes ($39 million); * decreased revenues related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, primarily as a result of lower prices and lower sales volumes ($449 million); * decreased retail revenues related to milder weather ($63 million); * increased retail revenues related to customer growth and higher average usage, excluding weather effects ($67 million); * decreased retail revenues related to reductions in retail electricity prices ($27 million); and * other miscellaneous factors ($1 million net decrease). Regulated electricity segment purchased power and fuel costs were $580 million lower in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * decreased costs related to traditional wholesale sales as a result of lower prices and lower sales volumes ($39 million); * decreased costs related to retail load hedge management wholesale sales, primarily as a result of lower prices and lower sales volumes ($445 million); * charges in 2001 related to purchased power contracts with Enron and its affiliates ($13 million net decrease); * decrease in mark-to-market for hedged natural gas and purchased power costs for future delivery ($15 million); * decreased costs related to the effects of milder weather on retail sales ($23 million); * increased costs related to retail sales growth, excluding weather effects ($24 million); * decreased replacement power costs for power plant outages due to lower market prices and fewer unplanned outages ($74 million); and * miscellaneous factors ($5 million net increase). MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT GROSS MARGIN Marketing and trading segment revenues were $56 million lower in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, compared with the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased revenues from generation sales other than Native Load primarily due to higher sales volumes, partially offset by lower market prices ($17 million); * lower realized wholesale revenues net of related mark-to-market reversals primarily due to lower prices partially offset by higher volumes ($112 million); * increased revenues from higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($124 million); * higher revenues related to the adoption of EITF 02-3 ($16 million); and * lower mark-to-market gains for future delivery primarily as a result of lower market liquidity and lower price volatility ($101 million). 9
Marketing and trading segment purchased power and fuel costs were $83 million higher in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, compared to the same period in the prior year as a result of: * increased fuel costs related to generation sales other than Native Load primarily because of higher sales volumes ($36 million); * decreased purchased power costs related to other realized marketing activities in the current period primarily due to lower prices partially offset by higher volumes ($44 million); * increased purchased power costs related to higher competitive retail sales in California by APS Energy Services ($89 million); and * change in mark-to-market fuel costs for future delivery ($2 million increase). OTHER INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS The decrease in real estate segment gross margin of $4 million was primarily due to lower commercial and property management sales partially offset by higher home and land sales activities. In addition, as discussed in "Real Estate Activities" below, SunCor had a $23 million ($14 million after tax) gain on the sale of its water utility company and a retail center which was reported as income from discontinued operations in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003. The decrease in other gross margin of $40 million was primarily due to losses on El Dorado's investment in NAC. Losses for the twelve month period ended March 31, 2003 totaled approximately $55 million on a pretax basis and were primarily related to NAC contracts with two customers ($47 million was recorded in other gross margin and $8 million was recorded in other expense). We reversed $5 million of loss reserves in the first quarter of 2003 related to NAC's contract settlement. We believe we have reserved our exposure with respect to these contracts in all material respects and, as a result, we consider these charges to be non-recurring. The increase in operations and maintenance expense of $78 million was due to a $47 million write-off related to the cancellation of Redhawk Units 3 and 4, severance costs of $36 million related to a 2002 voluntary workforce reduction, increased pension and other postretirement benefit costs of $12 million and other costs of $13 million, partially offset by lower costs related to generation reliability, plant outages and maintenance costs of $30 million. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $7 million primarily related to increased plant balances and new power plants, partially offset by lower regulatory amortization. The increase in taxes other than income taxes of $7 million is primarily due to increased property taxes on higher property balances. Other income decreased $11 million primarily due to an insurance recovery recorded in 2001 related to environmental remediation costs and other costs. Net interest expense increased $25 million primarily because of higher debt balances related to our generation construction program and lower capitalized interest on our generation construction program due to completion of Redhawk Units 1 and 2 in mid-2002. 10
REAL ESTATE ACTIVITIES As discussed in our 2002 10-K, we have undertaken an aggressive effort to accelerate asset sales activities to approximately double SunCor's annual earnings in 2003 to 2005 compared with the $19 million in earnings recorded in 2002. Certain components of SunCor's real estate sales activities, which are included in the real estate segment, may be required to be reported as discontinued operations on our Consolidated Statements of Income in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." Among other things, SFAS No. 144 prescribes accounting for discontinued operations and defines certain real estate activities as discontinued operations. We adopted SFAS No. 144 effective January 1, 2002 and determined that activities that would have required discontinued operations reporting in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were immaterial. We currently estimate that 20% to 40% of SunCor's net income in 2003 will be reported in discontinued operations; however, this ultimately depends on the specific properties sold. In the first quarter of 2003, SunCor sold its water utility company, which resulted in an after tax gain of $5 million ($8 million pretax). The gain on the sale and operating income in the current and prior periods are classified as discontinued operations on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. In the second quarter of 2002, SunCor sold a retail center, but maintained a significant continuing involvement through a management contract. In the first quarter of 2003, this management contract was canceled. As a result, the gain on the 2002 sale and the operating income related to this property have been reclassified as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations of $14 million (after income taxes) in the twelve months ended March 31, 2003 primarily reflects this sale and the sale of the water utility company. The following chart provides a summary of SunCor's earnings (after income taxes) for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2003 and the comparable prior periods (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, March 31, ------------------ ------------------- 2003 2002 2003 2002 ------ ------ ------ ------ Income from continuing operations $ 1 $ 1 $ 9 $ 4 Income from discontinued operations 5 1 14 1 ------ ------ ------ ------ Net income $ 6 $ 2 $ 23 $ 5 ====== ====== ====== ====== FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update these statements or make any further statements on any of these issues, except as required by applicable law. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by us. These factors include the ongoing restructuring of the electric industry, including the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona and decisions impacting wholesale competition; the outcome of regulatory and legislative proceedings relating to the restructuring; state and federal regulatory and legislative decisions and actions, including price caps and other market constraints imposed by the FERC; regional economic and market conditions, including the California energy 11
situation and completion of generation and transmission construction in the region, which could affect customer growth and the cost of power supplies; the cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets; weather variations affecting local and regional customer energy usage; the effect of conservation programs on energy usage; power plant performance; the successful completion of our generation construction program; regulatory issues associated with generation construction, such as permitting and licensing; our ability to compete successfully outside traditional regulated markets (including the wholesale market); our ability to manage our marketing and trading activities and the use of derivative contracts in our business; technological developments in the electric industry; the performance of the stock market, which affects the amount of our required contributions to our pension plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds; the strength of the real estate market in SunCor's market areas, which include Arizona, New Mexico and Utah; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. 12
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts) (Unaudited) Certain prior year amounts have been restated to conform to the 2003 presentation.

Exhibit 99.9 Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary Glossary of Terms Arizona Job Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in total non-farm payroll employment for the state of Arizona, non-seasonally adjusted. Building Permits - Metro Phoenix The number of residential dwellings permitted to be built by authorized agencies in Maricopa County, Arizona. Single-family refers to detached buildings intended to be occupied by one family each. Multi-family permits represent the number of units authorized to be built in condominium, townhouse and apartment complexes. Capacity Factor The ratio of the average operating load of an electric power generating unit for a period of time to the capacity rating of the unit during that period. Change in Mark-To-Market Gains The gross margin related to the change (Losses) For Future-Period in mark-to-market value in the current Deliveries period of transactions which have been entered into during the current period or prior periods for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period. Current Period Effects The net effect of the total revenue or gross margins realized on delivery of commodities in the period being measured, and the amount of prior-period mark-to-market (gains) losses on contracts delivered during period. The net effect of transferring prior-period mark-to-market to realized does not affect total revenues, gross margin or earnings. Degree-Days -- Cooling A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for cooling purposes. Cooling degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures less than the base temperature are ignored. Degree-Days -- Heating A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for heating purposes. Heating degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degree)F for the month. Average temperatures greater than the base temperature are ignored.
-2- Electricity Marketing and Trading All wholesale sales of electricity not - - Delivered accounted for in sales under traditional contracts or retail load hedge management. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak Palo Verde substation during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak Palo Verde substation during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - Off-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 Electricity average daily spot prices at - - On-Peak SP15, a region of California substations, during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Generation Capacity Out of Service Total capacity required and economic, and Replaced for Native Load yet unavailable for retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts due to scheduled or unscheduled outages. Measured in megawatts per day. Generation Sales Other Than Native Sales of electricity from generation Load owned by the company that is over and above the amount required to serve retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts. Generation Production -- Coal Amount of net energy produced by coal-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-3- Generation Production Amount of net energy predominately - -- Gas/Oil/Other produced by natural gas and oil-fueled generators. A small amount of energy from hydroelectric and solar power plants is also included. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Generation Production -- Nuclear Amount of net energy produced by nuclear-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Gigawatt-hour (GWH) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 megawatt-hours or 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Revenues from marketing and trading - - Pretax activities (other than retail sales, traditional wholesale sales and retail load hedge management) less the costs of the related commodities, with mark-to-market gains or losses, before income taxes. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin Marketing and trading gross margin, by Commodity -- Pretax before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the underlying commodities. Realized and Mark-to-Market Marketing and trading gross margin, Components before income taxes, for generation sales other than native load and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the period of delivery and whether the margin is realized or mark-to-market. Realized margins relate to commodities that have been delivered. Mark-to-market margins relate to commodities that have delivery dates in future periods. Mark-To-Market Adjustments to revenues or costs to recognize value of sales and purchase contracts, for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period, at current forward wholesale prices. Megawatt (MW) One million watts. Megawatt-hour (MWh) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 kilowatt-hours.
-4- Prior Period Mark-To-Market (Gains) The reversal of the gross margin related Losses on Contracts Delivered During to mark-to-market transactions entered Current Period into in prior periods for which the commodities were delivered in the current period. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition or earnings recognition, because in accordance with mark-to-market accounting, the margin was already recorded in the prior period. A negative amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a gain recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal positive amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. A positive amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a loss recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal negative amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. Purchased Power - Firm Load Power purchased from wholesale market sources used to serve regulated retail demand and traditional wholesale contracts. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Purchased Power - Marketing and Power purchased from wholesale market Trading sources used to serve marketing and trading sales not served by company-owned generation. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Realized Margin on Delivered Marketing and trading gross margin Commodities related to electricity and other commodities that were delivered in the then-current period. Retail Customer Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in the number of retail customers. Retail Electricity Usage Total retail sales for a period divided by the average retail customers for the same period. Measured in kilowatt-hours per average customer. Retail Load Hedge Management Wholesale sales to liquidate electricity purchases originally intended to meet firm load during peak times, which purchases were not needed ultimately for firm load. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Retail Sales Sales of electricity made directly to retail customers or ultimate customers. Residential retail sales are sales to households. Business retail sales include commercial, industrial, irrigation, and streetlighting sales. Measured in gigawatt-hours.
-5- System Peak Demand The demand for electricity during the one hour of highest use each month. Measured in megawatts. Traditional Contracts Wholesale sales resulting from unique cost-based, long-term contracts held by the company with various entities for the supply of electricity at agreed-upon prices. Weather Normalized Adjusted to exclude the effects of abnormal weather patterns.

Exhibit 99.10 NEWS [LOGO] PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MAY 2, 2003 Media Contact: Alan Bunnell, (602) 250-3376 PAGE 1 OF 2 Analyst Contacts: Rebecca Hickman, (602) 250-5668 Lisa Malagon, (602) 250-5671 Website: www.pinnaclewest.com PINNACLE WEST REPORTS 2003 FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS ON TARGET WITH PLAN PHOENIX - Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, of $25.3 million, or $0.28 per diluted share of common stock. This result compares with $53.8 million, or $0.63 per share, for the comparable quarter a year ago. "Quarterly results were on target with our plan, and our outlook for the year remains unchanged. However, we continue to monitor the uncertainties in the western wholesale power markets and their potential impact on our results," said Chairman Bill Post, adding that the Company's operations and market base remain strong. "The growth of our retail service territory is indicative of a strong core business that will drive future financial performance. And, even in today's battered wholesale market, our power marketing group continues to produce positive results." The quarter-to-quarter comparison was lower primarily due to decreased contributions from power marketing, which contributed very strong results in the 2002 first quarter; and an increase in fixed costs related to placing three new electricity-generating units into service in 2002. Other factors affecting results were higher operations and maintenance and replacement power costs related to scheduled power plant overhauls; the effects of milder weather; higher costs for pension and other post-retirement benefits; and a retail electricity price decrease. These negative factors were partially offset by competitive retail sales by APS Energy Services, the Company's competitive affiliate; and strong Arizona retail customer growth of 3.3 percent, about three times the national average. Despite the impact of milder weather, retail electricity sales in the first quarter were relatively flat at 5 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) compared with the same period last year. First quarter wholesale power sales were 7.6 billion kWh, up 73 percent from the 4.4 billion kWh sold in the comparable 2002 period.
PINNACLE WEST FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS MAY 2, 2003 PAGE 2 OF 2 The 1.5 percent retail price decrease, totaling about $28 million annually, became effective July 1, 2002. Arizona Public Service (APS) plans to decrease its retail prices another 1.5 percent this July, completing a 10-year commitment of reducing prices a total of 16 percent for residential and small commercial customers since 1994. Consistent with its accelerated asset sales program, SunCor Development Co., Pinnacle West's real estate subsidiary, reported net income of $6.4 million, compared with net income of $2.0 million for the prior year period. The difference was primarily the result of SunCor's sale of its water utility company. This sale resulted in a $5 million after-tax gain, which was recorded as discontinued operations in accordance with the accounting standard that classifies certain real estate activities as discontinued operations.
For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit http://www.pinnaclewest.com/main/pnw/investors/financials/quarterly/default.html.
CONFERENCE CALL Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live webcast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2003 first quarter earnings and recent developments at 12 noon (ET) today, May 2. The webcast can be accessed at www.pinnaclewest.com/presentations and will be available for replay through May 31, 2003. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter reservation number 9833252. A replay of the call also will be available until 12 midnight (ET), Friday, May 9, 2003, by calling (800) 642-1687 in the U.S. and Canada or (706) 645-9291 internationally and entering reservation number 9833252. Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of approximately $9 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States. It also develops residential, commercial, and industrial real estate projects. -30- THIS PRESS RELEASE CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS BASED ON CURRENT EXPECTATIONS, AND THE COMPANY ASSUMES NO OBLIGATION TO UPDATE THESE STATEMENTS OR MAKE ANY FURTHER STATEMENTS ON ANY OF THESE ISSUES, EXCEPT AS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW. BECAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM EXPECTATIONS, THE COMPANY CAUTIONS READERS NOT TO PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE STATEMENTS. A NUMBER OF FACTORS COULD CAUSE FUTURE RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM HISTORICAL RESULTS, OR FROM RESULTS OR OUTCOMES CURRENTLY EXPECTED OR SOUGHT BY THE COMPANY. THESE FACTORS INCLUDE THE ONGOING RESTRUCTURING OF THE ELECTRIC INDUSTRY; INCLUDING THE INTRODUCTION OF RETAIL ELECTRIC COMPETITION IN ARIZONA AND DECISIONS IMPACTING WHOLESALE COMPETITION; THE OUTCOME OF REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE PROCEEDINGS RELATING TO THE RESTRUCTURING; STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS AND ACTIONS, INCLUDING PRICE CAPS AND OTHER MARKET CONSTRAINTS IMPOSED BY THE FERC; REGIONAL ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS, INCLUDING THE CALIFORNIA ENERGY SITUATION AND COMPLETION OF GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION CONSTRUCTION IN THE REGION, WHICH COULD AFFECT CUSTOMER GROWTH AND THE COST OF POWER SUPPLIES; THE COST OF DEBT AND EQUITY CAPITAL AND ACCESS TO CAPITAL MARKETS; ENERGY USAGE; WEATHER VARIATIONS AFFECTING LOCAL AND REGIONAL CUSTOMER ENERGY USAGE; CONSERVATION PROGRAMS; POWER PLANT PERFORMANCE; THE SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF OUR GENERATION CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM; REGULATORY ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH GENERATION CONSTRUCTION , SUCH AS PERMITTING AND LICENSING; OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY OUTSIDE TRADITIONAL REGULATED MARKETS (INCLUDING THE WHOLESALE MARKET);OUR ABILITY TO MANAGE OUR MARKETING AND TRADING ACTIVITIES AND THE USE OF DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS IN OUR BUSINESS; TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE ELECTRIC INDUSTRY; THE PERFORMANCE OF THE STOCK MARKET, WHICH AFFECTS THE AMOUNT OF OUR REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR PENSION PLAN AND NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING TRUST FUNDS; THE STRENGTH OF THE REAL ESTATE MARKET IN SUNCOR'S MARKET AREAS, WHICH INCLUDE ARIZONA, NEW MEXICO AND UTAH; AND OTHER UNCERTAINTIES, ALL OF WHICH ARE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT AND MANY OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL.


