FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20040204060313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
APS General Rate Case
     
Summary of Rate Request
     As previously reported, on June 27, 2003, Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") filed a request with the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC") for a retail electricity rate increase. The major reasons for the request include changes in APS' cost of service, including significant increases in fuel and purchased power costs resulting from market conditions and purchases through the ACC's "Track B" procurement process. See "APS General Rate Case and Retail Rate Adjustment Mechanisms" in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company") Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003.
     APS' request includes the following major provisions:
     
Procedural Schedule; Filing of Testimony
     An ACC administrative law judge ("ALJ") has established a procedural schedule for the general rate case, with the hearing scheduled to begin on April 26, 2004. As required by the procedural schedule, on February 3, 2004, the following parties filed their initial written testimony with the ACC on all issues except cost of service (i.e., cost allocation among customer classes) and rate design:
     In major rate cases, such as that filed by APS, the ACC's technical staff is separated into an "advisory" group and a "litigation" or "trial" group. The latter is, in effect, an intervening party in the rate case and makes an independent recommendation to the ACC. The "advisory" staff provides technical advice and analysis to the ACC's ALJ hearing the
 
rate case and to the ACC Commissioners. This "advisory" staff is considered an extension of the ALJ and the Commissioners, and like the ALJ and the Commissioners, is prohibited by ACC rules from communicating with the "litigation" staff except through the formal hearing process.
     The written testimony filed with the ACC is voluminous, and APS is in the process of reviewing it. However, based on our preliminary review, the ACC staff and RUCO recommendations include the following information.
     
ACC Staff Recommendations
     In its filed testimony, the ACC staff recommended, among other things, that the ACC:
     
RUCO Recommendations
     In its filed testimony, RUCO recommended, among other things, that the ACC:
     
APS Response
     APS believes that its rate request is necessary to ensure APS' continued ability to reliably serve one of the fastest growing regions in the country and views any ultimate decision that would deny recovery of the Company's investment in the PWEC Dedicated Assets as constituting a regulatory "taking". APS will vigorously oppose the recommendations of the ACC staff, RUCO, and other parties offering similar recommendations.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


