FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20050727080409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant. Neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Certain of the Information referenced in Item 7.01 below relates to Pinnacle West Capital Corporation's ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company") results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005. This Information is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, and 99.7.
     On June 27, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for its fiscal quarter year ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.9.
     The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 and in Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, 99.7, 99.9 and 99.10 of this report relating to the Company's financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     Exhibit 99.9 to this report contains certain "non-GAAP financial measures," as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act. We describe these non-GAAP financial measures as "on-going earnings" and "on-going earnings per share." Exhibit 99.9 contains a table that reconciles each of these non-GAAP financial measures to net income, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). We believe on-going earnings provide investors with a useful indicator of our results that is comparable among periods because it excludes the effects of unusual items that may occur on an irregular basis. Investors should note that these non-GAAP financial measures involve judgments by management, including whether an item is classified as an unusual item. We use on-going earnings, or similar concepts, to measure our performance internally in reports for management.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Financial and Business Information
     The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business (see Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, 99.7, 99.8 and 99.10). This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at . The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided.
www.pinnaclewest.com
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 LIST OF CONTENTS 2005 SECOND QUARTER SUMMARY 2005 YEAR-TO-DATE 2004 BY QUARTER 2003 BY QUARTER 2002 BY QUARTER Quarters may not sum to totals due to rounding. Certain current and prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The definitions of terms used in this statistical summary are contained in the "Glossary of Terms" on the Pinnacle West website at: http://www.pinnaclewest.com/files/investors/2005Q2QuarStatsGloss.pdf This statistical data may be graphed in various quarterly or annual comparisons using the "Interactive Charts" tool on the Pinnacle West website at: http://www.pinnaclewest.com/main/pnw/investors/financials/quarterly/landing.html

EXHIBIT 99.2 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 2 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 3 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of June 30, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $43 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $9 million; 2006, $7 million; 2007, $17 million; and thereafter, $10 million. - --------------------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 43 and in line 44 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 43 are included in line 44. For example, line 44 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $8 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2005. A $8 million realized gain is included in the $18 million on line 43 for the second quarter of 2005. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 4 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 5 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 6 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 - ------------------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending May 2005. See Glossary of Terms. Page 7 of 31

EXHIBIT 99.3 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 See Glossary of Terms. Page 8 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 See Glossary of Terms. Page 9 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 FUTURE MARKETING AND TRADING MARK-TO-MARKET REALIZATION As of June 30, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $43 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $9 million; 2006, $7 million; 2007, $17 million; and thereafter, $10 million. - ----------------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 43 and in line 44 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The arithmetic opposites of amounts included in line 43 are included in line 44. For example, line 44 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $8 million was transferred to "realized" for the second quarter of 2005. A $8 million realized gain is included in the $18 million on line 43 for the second quarter of 2005. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 10 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 See Glossary of Terms. Page 11 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 See Glossary of Terms. Page 12 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2005 - ------------------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security (d) The economic indicators reflect latest available data through periods ending May 2005. See Glossary of Terms. Page 13 of 31

EXHIBIT 99.4 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 14 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 15 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 - ---------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 43 and in line 44 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The opposites of amounts included in line 43 are included in line 44. For example, line 44 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $6 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2004. A $6 million realized gain is included in the $63 million on line 43 for the total year 2004. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 16 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 17 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 See Glossary of Terms. Page 18 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2004 - -------------------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 19 of 31

EXHIBIT 99.5 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 See Glossary of Terms. Page 20 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 See Glossary of Terms. Page 21 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 - -------------------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 43 and in line 44 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The opposites of amounts included in line 43 are included in line 44. For example, line 44 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $6 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2003. A $6 million realized gain is included in the $65 million on line 43 for the total year 2003. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 22 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 See Glossary of Terms. Page 23 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 See Glossary of Terms. Page 24 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2003 - ------------------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 25 of 31

EXHIBIT 99.6 Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 26 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 27 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 - --------------------- (a) The net effect on pretax gross margin from realization of prior-period mark-to-market included in line 43 and in line 44 is zero. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not earnings recognition. The opposites of amounts included in line 43 are included in line 44. For example, line 44 shows that a prior-period mark-to-market gain of $41 million was transferred to "realized" for the total year 2002. A $41 million realized gain is included in the $121 million on line 43 for total year 2002. (b) Quarterly amounts do not total to the annual amounts because of intra-year mark-to-market eliminations. See Glossary of Terms. Page 28 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 29 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 See Glossary of Terms. Page 30 of 31
Last Updated 7/27/2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS BY QUARTER 2002 - -------------------- Sources: (a) This price is an average of daily prices obtained and used with permission from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (b) Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business (c) Arizona Department of Economic Security See Glossary of Terms. Page 31 of 31

Exhibit 99.7 Last updated July 27, 2005 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION EARNINGS VARIANCE EXPLANATIONS FOR THE PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND 2004 This discussion explains the changes in our consolidated earnings for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2005 and 2004. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005 on or before August 9, 2005. We suggest that this discussion be read in connection with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). EARNINGS CONTRIBUTION BY BUSINESS SEGMENT We have three principal business segments (determined by products, services and the regulatory environment): - our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. - our marketing and trading segment, which consists of our competitive energy business activities, including wholesale marketing and trading and APS Energy Services' commodity-related energy services; and - our real estate segment, which consists of SunCor's real estate development and investment activities. The following table summarizes net income for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions):
(a) The 2004 periods include $21 million (after-tax) related to the sale of El Dorado's limited partnership interest in the Phoenix Suns. GENERAL Throughout the following explanations of our results of operations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our regulated electricity segment and our marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. "Gross margin" is a "non-GAAP financial measure," as defined in accordance with SEC rules. Exhibit 99.10 reconciles this non-GAAP financial measure to operating income, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. We view gross margin as an important performance measure of the core profitability of our operations. This measure is a key component of our internal financial reporting and is used by our management in analyzing our business segments. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that our management uses. In addition, we have reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to our current-period presentation. PENDING SALE OF SILVERHAWK POWER STATION In June 2005, we entered into an agreement to sell our 75% interest in the Silverhawk Power Station to Nevada Power Company. Closing of the sale is subject to regulatory approvals, including approval by the Nevada Public Utilities Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which are expected to occur by this fall. As a result of this pending sale, we recorded an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of approximately $55 million. We have also reclassified Silverhawk operations in the current and prior periods to discontinued operations. DEFERRED PURCHASED POWER AND FUEL COSTS APS' retail rate case settlement became effective April 1, 2005. As part of the settlement, the ACC approved a 4.2% annual retail rate increase and a power supply adjustor ("PSA") that provides mechanisms for adjusting rates to reflect variations in fuel 2
and purchased power costs. In accordance with the PSA, APS defers for future rate recovery 90% of the difference between actual purchased power and fuel costs and the amount for such costs currently included in base rates. As of June 30, 2005, APS had deferred $34 million of pretax purchased power and fuel costs. OPERATING RESULTS - THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 COMPARED WITH THREE-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 Our consolidated net income for the three months ended June 30, 2005 was $27 million compared with $73 million for the prior-year period. The current-quarter net income included a loss from discontinued operations of $58 million which is primarily related to the pending sale and operations of Silverhawk (see discussion above). Income from continuing operations increased $11 million in the period-to-period comparison reflecting the following changes in earnings by segment: - Regulated Electricity Segment - Income from continuing operations increased approximately $29 million primarily due to a retail price increase effective April 1, 2005, higher retail sales volumes due to customer growth, the absence of regulatory asset amortization, deferred purchased power and fuel costs, net of higher costs, in accordance with the retail rate settlement, and lower depreciation due to lower depreciation rates. These positive factors were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance costs primarily related to generation, customer service, and benefit costs. - Marketing and Trading Segment - Income from continuing operations decreased approximately $4 million primarily due to lower realized margins on wholesale sales. - Real Estate Segment - Income from continuing operations increased approximately $7 million primarily due to increased parcel sales. - Other Segment - Income from continuing operations decreased approximately $21 million primarily due to an after-tax gain related to the sale of El Dorado's limited partnership interest in the Phoenix Suns recorded in the prior-year period. 3
Additional details on the major factors that increased (decreased) net income are contained in the following table (dollars in millions). REGULATED ELECTRICITY SEGMENT REVENUES Regulated electricity segment revenues were $60 million higher for the three months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of: - a $28 million increase in retail revenues due to a price increase effective April 1, 2005; 4
- an $18 million increase in retail revenues related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; - a $12 million increase in Off-System Sales primarily due to sales previously reported in the marketing and trading segment now classified as sales in the regulated electricity segment in accordance with the retail rate settlement; and - a $2 million increase due to miscellaneous factors. MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT REVENUES Marketing and trading segment revenues were $39 million lower for the three months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of: - a $25 million decrease in revenues from Off-System Sales primarily due to lower sales volumes and sales previously reported in the marketing and trading segment now classified as sales in the regulated electricity segment in accordance with the retail rate settlement; - a $7 million decrease in energy trading revenues on realized sales of electricity primarily due to lower delivered electricity prices and lower sales volumes; - a $5 million decrease from lower volumes and prices for competitive retail sales in California; and - a $2 million decrease on future mark-to-market gains due to higher price volatility. REAL ESTATE REVENUES Real estate revenues were $19 million higher for the three months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to increased parcel sales. OPERATING RESULTS - SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 COMPARED WITH SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 Our consolidated net income for the six months ended June 30, 2005 was $51 million compared with $104 million for the prior-year period. The current year period net income included a loss from discontinued operations of $64 million which is primarily related to the pending sale and operations of Silverhawk (see discussion above). Income from continuing operations increased $10 million in the period-to-period comparison reflecting the following changes in earnings by segment: - Regulated Electricity Segment - Income from continuing operations increased approximately $28 million primarily due to a retail price increase effective April 1, 2005, higher retail sales volumes due to customer growth, the absence of regulatory asset amortization, deferred purchased power and fuel costs, net of higher costs, in accordance with the retail rate settlement, and lower 5
depreciation due to lower depreciation rates. These positive factors were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance costs primarily related to generation, customer service, and benefit costs, and higher property taxes due to increased plant in service. - Marketing and Trading Segment - Income from continuing operations decreased approximately $11 million primarily due to lower realized margins on wholesale sales and competitive retail sales in California. - Real Estate Segment - Income from continuing operations increased approximately $14 million primarily due to increased parcel sales. - Other Segment - Income from continuing operations decreased approximately $21 million primarily due to an after-tax gain related to the sale of El Dorado's limited partnership interest in the Phoenix Suns recorded in the prior-year period. 6
Additional details on the major factors that increased (decreased) net income are contained in the following table (dollars in millions). REGULATED ELECTRICITY SEGMENT REVENUES Regulated electricity segment revenues were $60 million higher for the six months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of: - a $28 million increase in retail revenues related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; - a $28 million increase in retail revenues due to a price increase effective April 1, 2005; 7
- a $12 million increase in Off-System Sales primarily due to sales previously reported in the marketing and trading segment now classified as sales in the regulated electricity segment in accordance with the retail rate settlement; - a $9 million decrease in retail revenues related to milder weather; and - a $1 million increase due to miscellaneous factors. MARKETING AND TRADING SEGMENT REVENUES Marketing and trading segment revenues were $38 million lower for the six months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of: - a $19 million decrease in revenues from Off-System Sales primarily due to lower sales volumes, prices and sales previously reported in the marketing and trading segment now classified as sales in the regulated electricity segment in accordance with the retail rate settlement; - a $14 million decrease from lower volumes and prices on competitive retail sales in California; and - a $5 million decrease in energy trading revenues on realized sales of electricity primarily due to lower delivered electricity prices and lower volumes. REAL ESTATE REVENUES Real estate revenues were $40 million higher for the six months ended June 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to increased parcel sales. 8
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation. B -- Better W -- Worse
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation. B -- Better W -- Worse

Exhibit 99.8 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL SUMMARY GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Arizona Job Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in total non-farm payroll employment for the state of Arizona, non-seasonally adjusted. Building Permits - Metro Phoenix The number of residential dwellings permitted to be built by authorized agencies in Maricopa County, Arizona. Single-family refers to detached buildings intended to be occupied by one family each. Multi-family permits represent the number of units authorized to be built in condominium, townhouse and apartment complexes. Capacity Factor The ratio of the average operating load of an electric power generating unit for a period of time to the capacity rating of the unit during that period. Change in Mark-To-Market Value of Forward Sales The gross margin related to the change in mark-to-market value in the current period of transactions which have been entered into during the current period or prior periods for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period. Degree-Days -- Cooling A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for cooling purposes. Cooling degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degrees)F for the month. Average temperatures less than the base temperature are ignored. Degree-Days -- Heating A measure of temperatures designed to indicate the amount of electricity demand for heating purposes. Heating degree-days are calculated by summing the difference between each day's actual average temperature and a base temperature of 65(degrees)F for the month. Average temperatures greater than the base temperature are ignored. Electricity and Other Commodity Sales, Realized Marketing and trading gross margin related to electricity and other commodities that were delivered in the then-current period. Electricity Spot Prices --Palo Verde - Off-Peak Electricity average daily spot prices at Palo Verde substation during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour.
-2-
Electricity Spot Prices -- Palo Verde - On-Peak Electricity average daily spot prices at Palo Verde substation during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 - Off-Peak Electricity average daily spot prices at SP15, a region of California substations, during off-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Electricity Spot Prices -- SP15 - On-Peak Electricity average daily spot prices at SP15, a region of California substations, during on-peak hours. It measures electric prices at the producer level and is the result of real time prices used for benchmarking, price comparisons, and establishing price contracts. Measured in dollars per megawatt-hour. Generation Capacity Out of Service and Total capacity required and economic, yet unavailable Replaced for Native Load for retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts due to scheduled or unscheduled outages. Measured in megawatts per day. Generation Production -- Coal Amount of net energy produced by coal-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Generation Production -- Gas/Oil/Other Amount of net energy predominately produced by natural gas and oil-fueled generators. A small amount of energy from hydroelectric and solar power plants is also included. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Generation Production -- Nuclear Amount of net energy produced by nuclear-fueled generators. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Gigawatt-hour (GWH) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 megawatt-hours or 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours. Marketing and Trading Gross Margin - Pretax Revenues from marketing and trading activities (other than retail sales, traditional wholesale sales and retail load hedge management) less the costs of the related commodities, with mark-to-market gains or losses, before income taxes. Mark-To-Market Adjustments to revenues or costs to recognize value of sales and purchase contracts, for which the commodities are scheduled for delivery in a future period, at current forward wholesale prices.
-3-
Mark-To-Market Reversals on Realized Sales The reversal of the gross margin related to mark-to-market transactions entered into in prior periods for which the commodities were delivered in the current period. Realization of prior-period mark-to-market relates to cash flow recognition, not revenue recognition or earnings recognition, because in accordance with mark-to-market accounting, the margin was already recorded in the prior period. A negative amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a gain recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal positive amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. A positive amount shown in this category represents the arithmetic opposite of a loss recognized in the period in which the commodities were delivered; an equal negative amount is reflected in the realized revenue or margin for delivered commodities. Megawatt (MW) One million watts. Megawatt-hour (MWh) A unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 kilowatt-hours. Native Load Retail and wholesale sales supplied under traditional cost-based rate regulation. Off-System Sales Sales of electricity from generation owned or contracted by the company that is over and above the amount required to serve retail customers and traditional wholesale contracts. Purchased Power - Firm Load Power purchased from wholesale market sources used to serve regulated retail demand and traditional wholesale contracts. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Purchased Power - Marketing and Trading Power purchased from wholesale market sources used to serve marketing and trading sales not served by company-owned generation. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Realized and Mark-to-Market Components Marketing and trading gross margin, before income taxes, for off-system sales and for sales and purchases of electricity and other commodities by the company in the wholesale market, summarized by the period of delivery and whether the margin is realized or mark-to-market. Realized margins relate to commodities that have been delivered. Mark-to-market margins relate to commodities that have delivery dates in future periods. Retail Customer Growth Percentage growth over the prior year in the number of retail customers.
-4-
Retail Electricity Usage Total retail sales for a period divided by the average retail customers for the same period. Measured in kilowatt-hours per average customer. Retail Load Hedge Management Wholesale sales to liquidate electricity purchases originally intended to meet firm load during peak times, which purchases were not needed ultimately for firm load. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours. Retail Sales Sales of electricity made directly to retail customers or ultimate customers. Residential retail sales are sales to households. Business retail sales include commercial, industrial, irrigation, and streetlighting sales. Measured in gigawatt-hours. System Peak Demand The demand for electricity during the one hour of highest use each month. Measured in megawatts. Traditional Contracts Wholesale sales resulting from unique cost-based, long-term contracts held by the company with various entities for the supply of electricity at agreed-upon prices. Weather Normalized Adjusted to exclude the effects of abnormal weather patterns. Wholesale Sales of Electricity All wholesale sales of electricity not accounted for in sales under traditional contracts or retail load hedge management. These sales are made to other electric companies, power marketers, or public entities for the purpose of resale. Measured in gigawatt-hours.

EXHIBIT 99.9 NEWS [PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION LOGO] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE JULY 27, 2005 Media Contact: Alan Bunnell, (602) 250-3376 PAGE 1 OF 2 Analyst Contacts: Rebecca Hickman, (602) 250-5668 Lisa Malagon, (602) 250-5671 Web site: www.pinnaclewest.com PINNACLE WEST REPORTS 2005 SECOND QUARTER RESULTS On-Going Earnings Reflect Strong Growth PHOENIX - Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, of $27 million, or $0.28 per diluted share of common stock. This result compares with net income of $73 million, or $0.79 per diluted share, for the same quarter a year ago. On-going consolidated earnings in the second quarter of 2005 were $86 million, or $0.89 per share, compared with $54 million, or $0.59 per share in the comparable 2004 quarter. On-going earnings for the second quarter of 2005 exclude an after-tax loss of $59 million, or $0.61 per share, related to the pending sale of the Silverhawk Power Station. On-going earnings for the 2004 second quarter exclude income after income taxes of $19 million, or $0.20 per share, related to the sale of the Company's interests in the Phoenix Suns, NAC International and Silverhawk. "Customer growth continues to be one of the underlying fundamentals of our company's success," said Pinnacle West Chairman Bill Post, citing a service territory that is growing about 4 percent a year and three times the national average. "That growth, however, will require significant planning and investment on our part and continuing cooperation from our regulators." Post added that, looking forward, "the Company's earnings outlook for the year remains unchanged and on target" excluding the effects of the Silverhawk sale. The quarter-to-quarter results were favorably affected by higher retail electricity revenues resulting from the company's first price increase in 14 years and higher retail sales volumes due to customer growth; lower depreciation expense; the absence of regulatory asset amortization; deferred fuel and purchased power costs; and improved results from the Company's real estate operations. These favorable factors were partially offset by an increase in operating costs primarily related to generation, customer service and benefits costs. For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit www.pinnaclewest.com/financials.
PINNACLE WEST SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS JULY 27, 2005 PAGE 2 OF 2 CONFERENCE CALL Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live webcast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2005 second quarter earnings and recent developments at 12 noon (ET) today, July 27, 2005. The webcast can be accessed at www.pinnaclewest.com/presentations and will be available for replay on the web site for 30 days. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter reservation number 7452307. A replay of the call also will be available until 12 midnight (ET), Wednesday, August 3, 2005, by calling (800) 642-1687 in the U.S. and Canada or (706) 645-9291 internationally and the same reservation number. Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of about $10.7 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States. It also develops residential, commercial, and industrial real estate projects. -30- This press release contains a forward-looking statement about Pinnacle West's 2005 earnings outlook. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update this statement or to make any further statements on this issue, except as required by applicable law. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on this statement. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. In addition to the "Risk Factors" described in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to Pinnacle West's and APS' Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005, these factors include, but are not limited to: state and federal regulatory and legislative decisions and actions, including by the Arizona Corporation Commission and the Federal Electric Regulatory Commission; the ongoing restructuring of the electric industry, including the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona and decisions impacting wholesale competition; the outcome of regulatory, legislative and judicial proceedings relating to the restructuring; market prices for electricity and natural gas; power plant performance and outages; transmission outages and constraints; weather variations affecting local and regional customer energy usage; customer growth and energy usage; regional economic and market conditions, including the results of litigation and other proceedings resulting from the California energy situation, volatile purchased power and fuel costs and the completion of generation and transmission construction in the region, which could affect customer growth and the cost of power supplies; the cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets; the uncertainty that current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time; our ability to compete successfully outside traditional regulated markets (including the wholesale market); the performance of our marketing and trading activities due to volatile market liquidity and any deteriorating counterparty credit and the use of derivative contracts in our business (including the interpretation of the subjective and complex accounting rules related to these contracts); changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the interpretation of those principles; the performance of the stock market and the changing interest rate environment, which affect the amount of required contributions to Pinnacle West's pension plan and APS' nuclear decommissioning trust funds, as well as the reported costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits; technological developments in the electric industry; the strength of the real estate market in SunCor's market areas, which include Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of Pinnacle West and APS.
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION NON-GAAP MEASURE RECONCILIATION - NET INCOME (GAAP MEASURE) TO ON-GOING EARNINGS (NON-GAAP MEASURE)

EXHIBIT 99.10 PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION NON-GAAP MEASURE RECONCILIATION - OPERATING INCOME (GAAP MEASURE) TO GROSS MARGIN (NON-GAAP MEASURE) (in thousands)
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION NON-GAAP MEASURE RECONCILIATION - OPERATING INCOME (GAAP MEASURE) TO GROSS MARGIN (NON-GAAP MEASURE) (in thousands)


