FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20051104060122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
2005 General Rate Case
     On November 4, 2005, Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") will file a request with the Arizona Corporation Commission ("ACC") for a $409.1 million, or 19.9%, increase in its annual retail electricity revenues effective no later than December 31, 2006. The filing is based on a historical test year ended December 31, 2004, adjusted for known and measurable changes. APS expects the ACC to issue a procedural schedule during the next several months detailing the timeline for addressing the request.
     The requested rate increase is necessary to recover the following increased costs (dollars in millions):
     The request is based on:
     The proposed capital structure and costs of capital are as follows:
     APS has proposed an adjustment to accelerate over five years the funding of APS' underfunded pension liability, and an environmental improvement charge adjustment mechanism that would provide for timely recovery of certain costs related to environmental controls at APS' fossil-fueled generating facilities.
Table of Contents
     APS has requested the following modifications related to the power supply adjustor ("PSA") approved by the ACC earlier this year:
     This request does not include the 1.7% PSA surcharge filing presently under consideration by the ACC, nor an expected spring 2006 adjustor filing of approximately 5% as prescribed by the existing PSA order. We currently estimate that approximately 40% of this 5% adjustor request (or a 2% increase) will be to recover unplanned 2005 Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station ("Palo Verde") outage costs which were necessary to operate Palo Verde prudently. APS estimates that the additional replacement power cost associated with the unplanned outages at Palo Verde through October 31, 2005, for which APS would be seeking recovery, were approximately $40 million before income taxes.
Earnings Outlook
     In this discussion, earnings per share amounts are after income taxes and are based on diluted common shares outstanding. The earnings guidance in this Form 8-K Report supersedes all previous earnings guidance provided by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company").
     Our earnings forecasts are subject to numerous risks, including those described under "Forward-Looking Statements" below and under "Business Outlook" in Part I, Item 2 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005 (the "June Form 10-Q"). Our estimates as to how several of these risks and other factors may affect future earnings follow:
Table of Contents
     
2005 Earnings Outlook
     We expect earnings for 2005 to be within a reasonable range of $3.00 per share, including earnings attributable to PSA cost deferrals of approximately $0.95 per share, before giving effect to (a) the $87 million after-tax regulatory disallowance resulting from APS' retail rate settlement approved by the ACC earlier this year; and (b) the $55 million after-tax loss resulting from the sale of our interest in the Silverhawk Power Station.
     
2006 Earnings Outlook
     We expect earnings for 2006 to be within a reasonable range of $3.00 per share, including earnings attributable to PSA cost deferrals of approximately $1.30 per share.
     As of October 31, 2005, we had hedged approximately 85% of our exposure to changes in the price of natural gas and purchased power for APS' native load requirements for 2006. We do not anticipate any substantial change in this hedge position. Based on this hedge position and forward market prices for natural gas as of October 31, 2005, we estimate that (a) APS' Fuel and Power Costs in 2006 will be approximately $834 million before income taxes and (b) an increase (decrease) of $1.00 per MMBtu in the price of natural gas would increase (decrease) APS' pretax Fuel and Power Costs in 2006 by approximately $12 million. Our estimate of APS' Fuel and Power Costs in 2006 has increased substantially over the last several months primarily as a result of rapidly escalating natural gas prices; the timing of incremental hedge positions; changes in forecast generation load and sales; changes in forecast off-system sales margins primarily attributable to changes in forward market spark spreads; and changes in forecast natural gas transportation fixed costs, such as demand charges and imbalance fees. As noted above, the PSA includes a $776.2 million annual limit on Fuel and Power Costs under APS' current base rates and the PSA. We assume that the $776.2 million annual limit is not an automatic disallowance of prudently incurred costs above this level, and we believe our existing ACC order does not predetermine any disallowance of prudently incurred fuel costs other than such costs not recovered pursuant to the 90/10 sharing provision under the PSA. We currently estimate that APS' Fuel and Power Costs in 2006 will exceed the $776.2 million limit in the fourth quarter of
Table of Contents
2006. Our estimate of Fuel and Power Costs is subject to further significant change due to the volatile nature of certain of the factors and assumptions described in this paragraph.
     
2007 Earnings Outlook
     We estimate that our base level of earnings for 2007 will be within a reasonable range of $2.70 per share, including earnings attributable to PSA cost deferrals of approximately $1.75 per share, before considering any potential earnings benefit derived from a rate increase effective at any time during 2007.
     Assuming our request is granted effective December 31, 2006, we expect earnings for 2007 to be within a reasonable range of $3.75 per share, including an earnings contribution from APS of approximately $3.30 per share (equivalent to a return on APS' average common equity of approximately 10.4%), including earnings attributable to PSA cost deferrals of approximately $0.25 per share.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations, and neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements or make any further statements on any of these issues, except as required by applicable law. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "hope," "may," "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. In addition to the "Risk Factors" described in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to the June Form 10-Q, these factors include, but are not limited to:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


