FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20050426160758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant. Neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
ACC  Arizona Corporation Commission
APS  Arizona Public Service Company, a subsidiary of the Company
Company  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation
FERC  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
kWh  kilowatt hour, one thousand watts per hour
January Form 8-K  Pinnacle West's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 2005
March Form 8-K  Pinnacle West's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 29, 2005
Native Load  retail and wholesale sales supplied under traditional cost-based rate regulation
Pinnacle West  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation
Pinnacle West Energy  Pinnacle West Energy Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company
PWEC Dedicated Assets  the following Pinnacle West Energy Corporation power plants: Redhawk Units 1 and 2, West Phoenix Units 4 and 5 and Saguaro Unit 3
Sundance Plant  a 450-megawatt generating facility located approximately 55 miles southeast of Phoenix, Arizona
2004 Form 10-K  the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
2004 Settlement Agreement  an agreement that, as approved by the ACC, established terms to resolve APS' general rate case originally filed with the ACC in June 2003
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Certain of the Information referenced in Item 7.01 below relates to Pinnacle West's results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005. This Information is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, and 99.7.
     On April 26, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for its fiscal quarter year ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.9.
     The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 and in Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, 99.7, 99.9 and 99.10 of this report relating to the Company's financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Financial and Business Information
     The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business (see Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, 99.7, and 99.8). This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at . The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided.
www.pinnaclewest.com
Earnings Outlook
     We currently estimate that 2005 earnings will be within a reasonable range around $3.00 per diluted common share. This estimate is based on a number of factors and assumptions, including but not limited to:
Table of Contents
     Except as described in the following sentence, earnings per share amounts for the factors and assumptions discussed above are after income taxes and are based on diluted common shares outstanding before the expected equity issuance. Earnings per share amounts for the net effect of the expected equity issuance are after income taxes and are based on expected average common shares outstanding after the issuance.
     This earnings guidance supersedes all previous earnings guidance provided by the Company and is forward-looking information. Actual results may differ materially from our expectations. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below.
Silverhawk Power Station
     Pinnacle West, through its subsidiary Pinnacle West Energy, has a 75% ownership interest in Silverhawk, a 570 MW combined cycle power plant located 20 miles north of Las Vegas, Nevada. Silverhawk is the only Pinnacle West generating facility that operates as a fully competitive merchant generator. While we believe that our Silverhawk ownership interest will be profitable in the longer term, we estimate that in 2005 and 2006 it will incur annual after-tax losses in the range of $19 million to $23 million, or $0.20 to $0.25 per share. Such a loss for 2005 was assumed in developing the Company's 2005 earnings outlook discussed above.
     Recently, we have received proposals from several parties that have expressed interest in acquiring our ownership interest in Silverhawk. These proposals contemplate a transaction closing in 2005. Such a transaction would result in our recognizing a loss. If such a transaction were to
Table of Contents
occur, we would plan to invest the after-tax sale proceeds, estimated to be in the range of $200 million to $215 million, into APS. No assurance can be given that the transaction will occur.
     The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, 99.7 and 99.8 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations, and we assume no obligation to update these statements or make any further statements on any of these issues, except as required by applicable law. Forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predicts," "hope," "may," "believe," "should, " "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by us. These factors include, but are not limited to:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1 Last Updated 4/26/05

 
Exhibit 99.2 Last Updated 4/26/05
 
 
 
Future Marketing and Trading Mark-to-Market Realization
As of March 31, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $45 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $16 million; 2006, $6 million; 2007, $15 million; and thereafter, $8 million.
 
 
 
 
Sources:

 
Last Updated 4/26/05
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Future Marketing and Trading Mark-to-Market Realization
As of March 31, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $45 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $16 million; 2006, $6 million; 2007, $15 million; and thereafter, $8 million.
 
 
 
 
Sources:

 
Exhibit 99.4 Last Updated 4/26/05
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2004, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $39 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $15 million; 2006, $6 million; and thereafter, $18 million.
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.5 Last Updated 4/26/05
Page 1 of 8
 
Page 2 of 8
 
Page 3 of 8
 
As of December 31, 2003, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $23 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2004, $5 million; 2005, $5 million; 2006, $3 million and thereafter, $10 million.
Page 4 of 8
 
Page 5 of 8
 
Page 6 of 8
 
Page 7 of 8
 
Page 8 of 8

 
EXHIBIT 99.6 Last Updated 4/26/05
Page 1 of 8
 
Page 2 of 8
 
Page 3 of 8
 
Page 4 of 8
 
Page 5 of 8
 
Page 6 of 8
 
Page 7 of 8
 
Page 8 of 8

 
EXHIBIT 99.7
LAST UPDATE: 4/26/05
     This discussion explains the changes in our consolidated earnings for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 on or before May 10, 2005. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website ().
www.pinnaclewest.com
     We have three principal business segments (determined by services and the regulatory environment):
     The following table summarizes net income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and the comparable prior-year period (dollars in millions):
 
General
     Throughout the following explanations of our results of operations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our regulated electricity segment and our marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. "Gross margin" is a "non-GAAP financial measure," as defined in accordance with SEC rules. Exhibit 99.10 reconciles this non-GAAP financial measure to operating income, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We view gross margin as an important performance measure of the core profitability of our operations. This measure is a key component of our internal financial reporting and is used by our management in analyzing our business segments. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that our management uses. In addition, we have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conform to our current period presentation.
Operating Results  Three-month period ended March 31, 2005 compared with the three-month period ended March 31, 2004
     Our consolidated net income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 was $24 million compared with $31 million for the prior-year period. The $7 million decrease in the period-to-period comparison reflected the following changes in earnings by segment:
 
Additional details on the major factors that increased (decreased) net income are contained in the following table (dollars in millions).
     The increase in net costs (primarily depreciation, interest expense, property taxes and operations and maintenance expense, net of gross margin contributions) related to the Silverhawk Power Station, which was placed in service in mid-2004 by Pinnacle West Energy totaled approximately $4 million after income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared with the prior-year period.
Regulated Electricity Segment Revenues
     Regulated electricity segment revenues were $1 million higher for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
 
Marketing and Trading Segment Revenues
     Marketing and trading segment revenues were $29 million higher for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
Real Estate Revenues
     Real estate revenues were $20 million higher for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to higher land and home sales.
 
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
B  Better
W  Worse

 
Last Updated 4/26/05
EXHIBIT 99.8
 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary  Glossary of Terms
 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary  Glossary of Terms
 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary  Glossary of Terms
 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Quarterly Consolidated Statistical Summary  Glossary of Terms

 
Exhibit 99.9
PHOENIX  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, of $24.4 million, or $0.27 per diluted share of common stock. This result compares with net income of $31.4 million, or $0.34 per share, for the comparable quarter a year ago.
"While first quarter results were lower than the same period a year ago, they were significantly better than our plan," said Chairman Bill Post. "Further, they reflect our strong core business performance and the rising demand for electricity in the growing Arizona market."
Post added that recent approval of the Company's rate settlement provides a regulatory structure which places all of the company's Arizona power plants in rate base, while strengthening and clarifying Arizona Public Service's (APS) responsibility to provide for the energy needs of its customers.
Results for the quarter were positively impacted by higher retail sales at APS due to customer growth of 4 percent (three times the national average); lower replacement power costs attributable to fewer unplanned plant outages; lower gas and power prices; the absence of regulatory asset amortization; and higher earnings at the Company's real estate subsidiary.
These positive items were more than offset by a number of factors, including a net increase in costs related to placing the Silverhawk Power Station into service in mid-2004; an increase in operating costs primarily related to customer service, generation and benefits costs; the effects of milder weather; lower results from the Company's competitive retail operations; and increased property taxes.
For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit .
http://www.pinnaclewest.com/main/pnw/investors/financials/quarterly/default.html
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live web cast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2005 first quarter earnings and recent
Conference Call
 
developments at 11 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, April 27, 2005. The web cast can be accessed at . To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter reservation number 5245903.
www.pinnaclewest.com/main/pnw/investors/presentations/default.html
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of approximately $10 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States. It also develops residential, commercial, and industrial real estate projects.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, and neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements or make any further statements on any of these issues, except as required by applicable law. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "hope," "may," "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. These factors include, but are not limited to: state and federal regulatory and legislative decisions and actions, including by the FERC; the ongoing restructuring of the electric industry, including the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona and decisions impacting wholesale competition; the outcome of regulatory, legislative and judicial proceedings relating to the restructuring; market prices for electricity and natural gas; power plant performance and outages, including transmission outages and constraints; weather variations affecting local and regional customer energy usage; customer growth and energy usage; regional economic and market conditions, including the results of litigation and other proceedings resulting from the California energy situation, volatile purchased power and fuel costs and the completion of generation and transmission construction in the region, which could affect customer growth and the cost of power supplies; the cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets; the uncertainty that current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time; our ability to compete successfully outside traditional regulated markets (including the wholesale market); the performance of our marketing and trading activities due to volatile market liquidity and any deteriorating counterparty credit and the use of derivative contracts in our business (including the interpretation of the subjective and complex accounting rules related to these contracts); changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the interpretation of those principles; the performance of the stock market and the changing interest rate environment, which affect the amount of required contributions to Pinnacle West's pension plan and APS' nuclear decommissioning trust funds, as well as the reported costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits; technological developments in the electric industry; the strength of the real estate market in SunCor's market areas, which include Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of Pinnacle West and APS.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.

 
Exhibit 99.10


