FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20051027075928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant. Neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     Certain of the Information referenced in Item 7.01 below relates to Pinnacle West Capital Corporation's ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company") results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. This Information is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, 99.7, 99.9, and 99.10.
     On October 27, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.9.
     The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 and in Exhibits 99.2, 99.3, 99.7, 99.9 and 99.10 of this report relating to the Company's financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     Exhibit 99.9 to this report contains certain "non-GAAP financial measures," as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act. We describe these non-GAAP financial measures as "on-going earnings" and "on-going earnings per share." Exhibit 99.9 contains a table that reconciles each of these non-GAAP financial measures to net income, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). We believe on-going earnings provide investors with a useful indicator of our results that is comparable among periods because it excludes the effects of unusual items that may occur on an irregular basis. Investors should note that these non-GAAP financial measures involve judgments by management, including whether an item is classified as an unusual item. We use on-going earnings, or similar concepts, to measure our performance internally in reports for management.
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Financial and Business Information
     The Company is providing quarterly consolidated statistical summaries, earnings variance explanations, and a glossary of relevant terms (collectively, "Information") to help interested parties better understand its business (see Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, 99.7, 99.8 and 99.10). This Information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at . The Information may not represent all of the factors that could affect the Company's operating or financial results for various periods. Some of the Information is preliminary in nature and could be subject to significant adjustment. Some of the Information is based on information received from third parties and may contain inaccuracies. The Company is not responsible for any such inaccuracies. Although the Company may update or correct the Information if it is aware that such Information has been revised or is inaccurate, the Company assumes no obligation to update or correct the Information and reserves the right to discontinue the provision of all or any portion of the Information at any time or to change the type of Information provided.
www.pinnaclewest.com
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 

 
 
 
Future Marketing and Trading Mark-to-Market Realization
As of Septmeber 30, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $58 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $17 million; 2006, $10 million; 2007, $21 million; and thereafter, $10 million.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Future Marketing and Trading Mark-to-Market Realization
As of September 30, 2005, Pinnacle West had accumulated net mark-to-market gains of $58 million related to our power marketing and trading activities. We estimate that these gains will be reclassified to realized gains as the underlying commodities are delivered, as follows: 2005, $17 million; 2006, $10 million; 2007, $21 million; and thereafter, $10 million.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
LAST UPDATED: 10/27/05
Exhibit 99.7
     This discussion explains the changes in our consolidated earnings for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 follow this discussion. We will file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 on or before November 9, 2005. We suggest that this discussion be read in connection with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com).
     We have three principal business segments (determined by products, services and the regulatory environment):
 
     The following table summarizes net income for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions):
 
General
     Throughout the following explanations of our results of operations, we refer to "gross margin." With respect to our regulated electricity segment and our marketing and trading segment, gross margin refers to electric operating revenues less purchased power and fuel costs. "Gross margin" is a "non-GAAP financial measure," as defined in accordance with SEC rules. Exhibit 99.10 reconciles this non-GAAP financial measure to operating income, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. We view gross margin as an important performance measure of the core profitability of our operations. This measure is a key component of our internal financial reporting and is used by our management in analyzing our business segments. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that our management uses. In addition, we have reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to our current-period presentation.
Pending Sale of Silverhawk
     In June 2005, we entered into an agreement to sell our 75% interest in Silverhawk to Nevada Power Company. The Nevada Public Utilities Commission approved the sale in September 2005. Closing of the sale is subject to additional regulatory approvals, including approval by the FERC and clearance by the Federal Trade Commission, which are expected to be received in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a result of this pending sale, we recorded an
 
after-tax loss from discontinued operations of approximately $55 million in the second quarter of 2005. The marketing and trading segment discontinued operations amounts in the chart above also include the revenues and expenses related to the operations of Silverhawk.
Deferred Fuel and Purchased Power Costs
     APS' retail rate settlement became effective April 1, 2005. As part of the settlement, the ACC approved a 4.2% annual retail rate increase and a power supply adjustor ("PSA") that provides mechanisms for adjusting rates to reflect variations in fuel and purchased power costs. In accordance with the PSA, APS defers for future rate recovery 90% of the difference between actual fuel and purchased power costs and the amount for such costs currently included in base rates. Actual fuel and purchased power costs are higher than prior periods primarily due to higher fuel prices. The current base rate for fuel and purchased power costs is based on 2003 price levels and spot prices for natural gas and wholesale power have increased over 25% since then. Fuel costs were also higher because all of our latest generation plant additions needed to serve customer growth are higher-cost natural gas fired plants. Finally, fuel and purchased power costs were higher because plant outage days were higher in the three-months and nine-months ended September 30, 2005 compared to the prior year periods. The amount of APS' pretax PSA deferrals at September 30, 2005 was $143 million, including $80 million of PSA deferrals that are the subject of a pending surcharge application before the ACC. Although APS defers actual fuel and purchased power costs on a current basis, APS' recovery of the deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual PSA adjustments and ACC approval of periodic surcharge applications.
Operating Results  Three-month period ended September 30, 2005 compared with three-month period ended September 30, 2004
     Our consolidated net income for the three months ended September 30, 2005 was $104 million compared with $105 million for the prior-year period. The current quarter net income included $19 million (after-tax) from discontinued operations, which is primarily related to sales of commercial properties at SunCor. Income from continuing operations decreased $19 million in the period-to-period comparison, reflecting the following changes in earnings by segment:
 
 
Additional details on the major factors that increased (decreased) net income are contained in the following table (dollars in millions).
Regulated Electricity Segment Revenues
     Regulated electricity segment revenues were $82 million higher for the three months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
 
Marketing and Trading Segment Revenues
     Marketing and trading segment revenues were $16 million higher for the three months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
Real Estate Revenues
     Real estate revenues were $6 million higher for the three months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to increased parcel sales at SunCor.
Operating Results  Nine-month period ended September 30, 2005 compared with nine-month period ended September 30, 2004
     Our consolidated net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $155 million compared with $209 million for the prior-year period. The current year period net income included a loss from discontinued operations of $44 million (after-tax), which is primarily related to the pending sale and revenue and expenses related to Silverhawk (see discussion above), partially offset by sales of commercial properties at SunCor. Income from continuing operations decreased $10 million in the period-to-period comparison, reflecting the following changes in earnings by segment:
 
 
Additional details on the major factors that increased (decreased) net income are contained in the following table (dollars in millions).
 
Regulated Electricity Segment Revenues
     Regulated electricity segment revenues were $143 million higher for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
Marketing and Trading Segment Revenues
     Marketing and trading segment revenues were $23 million lower for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily as a result of:
Real Estate Revenues
     Real estate revenues were $46 million higher for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to increased parcel sales at SunCor.
 
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
     B  Better      W  Worse
 
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
     B  Better      W  Worse

 
Exhibit 99.8
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.9
CONFIDENTIAL DRAFT 3b, 10/19/2005 1:21 PM
PHOENIX  Pinnacle West Capital Corp. (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, of $103.7 million, or $1.05 per diluted share of common stock. This result compares with consolidated net income of $105.4 million, or $1.15 per diluted share, for the same period in 2004.
On-going consolidated earnings in the third quarter of 2005 were $186.4 million, or $1.89 per share, compared with $105.7 million, or $1.16 per share in the comparable 2004 quarter. On-going earnings for the 2005 third quarter exclude a regulatory disallowance of $87 million after income taxes, or $0.88 per share, resulting from the Company's retail rate settlement approved by the Arizona Corporation Commission earlier this year and $4.3 million, or $0.04 per share, of income from discontinued operations related to the sales of the Company's interests in NAC International and the Silverhawk Power Station. On-going earnings for the 2004 third quarter exclude a net loss from discontinued operations of $0.3 million, or $0.01 per share, related to Silverhawk and NAC.
"While our results reflect the rate decision from earlier this year, dramatic increases in natural gas prices and the state's growing demand for electricity will require continuing cooperation from our Arizona regulators," said Chairman Bill Post. "The ability to recover our costs  including higher fuel and purchased power  will be essential for the company to maintain the highest levels of reliability and to continue investing in critical infrastructure for Arizona's economic growth."
The quarter-to-quarter on-going results were favorably impacted by higher retail electricity revenues resulting from the Company's first price increase in 14 years; higher retail sales volumes due to customer growth of 4.5 percent; deferred fuel and purchased power costs; improved results from the Company's real estate operations; and warmer weather.
The Company expects earnings for 2005 to be within a reasonable range of $3.00 per share. This estimate does not reflect the effects of the regulatory disallowance or the Silverhawk sale.
 
For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit .
www.pinnaclewest.com/financials
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live web cast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2005 third quarter earnings and recent developments at 11 a.m. (ET) today, October 27, 2005. The web cast can be accessed at and will be available for replay on the web site for 30 days. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter reservation number 1347027. A replay of the call also will be available until 11:55 p.m. (ET), Wednesday, November 2, 2005, by calling (800) 642-1687 in the U.S. and Canada or (706) 645-9291 internationally and the same reservation number.
Conference Call
www.pinnaclewest.com/presentations
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of about $12 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States. It also develops residential, commercial, and industrial real estate projects.
This press release contains a forward-looking statement about Pinnacle West's 2005 earnings outlook. Pinnacle West does not assume any obligation to update this statement or to make any further statements on this issue, except as required by applicable law. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on this statement. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West. In addition to the "Risk Factors" described in Exhibit 99.1 to Pinnacle West's Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005, these factors include, but are not limited to: state and federal regulatory and legislative decisions and actions, including by the Arizona Corporation Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; the ongoing restructuring of the electric industry, including the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona and decisions impacting wholesale competition; the outcome of regulatory, legislative and judicial proceedings relating to the restructuring; the timely recovery of Power Supply Adjustor deferrals; market prices for electricity and natural gas; power plant performance and outages; transmission outages and constraints; weather variations affecting local and regional customer energy usage; customer growth and energy usage; regional economic and market conditions, including the results of litigation and other proceedings resulting from the California energy situation; volatile purchased power and fuel costs and the completion of generation and transmission construction in the region, which could affect customer growth and the cost of power supplies; the cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets; the uncertainty that current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time; our ability to compete successfully outside traditional regulated markets (including the wholesale market); the performance of our marketing and trading activities due to volatile market liquidity and any deteriorating counterparty credit and the use of derivative contracts in our business (including the interpretation of the subjective and complex accounting rules related to these contracts); changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the interpretation of those principles; the performance of the stock market and the changing interest rate environment, which affect the amount of required contributions to Pinnacle West's pension plan and APS' nuclear decommissioning trust funds, as well as the reported costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits; technological developments in the electric industry; the strength of the real estate market in SunCor's market areas, which include Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of Pinnacle West.
 
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
 

 
Exhibit 99.10
 


