FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20060421091055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     
Emergency Interim Rate Increase Recommended Order
     On April 19, 2006, an administrative law judge ("ALJ") with the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC") issued a recommended order in connection with the application by Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") for an emergency interim rate increase of $232 million to recover APS' under-collection of higher annual fuel and purchased power costs. See "Application for Emergency Rate Increase" in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West")/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 ("Note 3"). Through the recommended order, the ALJ recommends that the ACC:
     APS is currently evaluating the recommended order and expects to file exceptions to the recommended order by the due date of April 24, 2006. APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
     
ACC Approval of PSA Surcharge
     On April 12, 2006, the ACC issued an order approving APS' recovery of $15.3 million of 2005 PSA deferrals through a temporary rate increase of approximately 0.7% to take effect upon the date of the ACC's decision in the emergency interim rate proceeding discussed above. See "Application for PSA Surcharges" in Note 3 for additional information about APS' PSA surcharge requests.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


