FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20071231142647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
     
FERC Rate Case
     On December 31, 2007, Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") filed with the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC") an application to increase annual pretax retail revenues by approximately $30 million to cover increased transmission rates approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") on September 21, 2007. The FERC approved the increased transmission rates effective March 1, 2008, subject to refund pending the final outcome of FERC proceedings on the matter. For additional information regarding the FERC Rate Case, see "FERC Rate Case" in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation/APS Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. The ACC filing, which is intended to implement an ACC-approved mechanism by which changes in retail transmission charges can be reflected in APS' retail rates, requests that the rate increase become effective as of March 1, 2008. APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


