FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20070525172203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On May 23, 2007, the shareholders of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company") approved the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan"). The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units, performance cash awards, dividend equivalents and stock to existing and prospective employees, officers, members of the board of directors, consultants and advisors. The 2007 Plan also allows for awards that qualify as performance-based pay. The Human Resources Committee of Pinnacle West's Board of Directors (the "Committee") selects award recipients and administers the 2007 Plan. The 2007 Plan will terminate on May 23, 2017.
Approval of the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     The aggregate number of shares of Pinnacle West common stock that can be subject to awards under the 2007 Plan cannot exceed 8,000,000 and the Committee cannot grant awards relating to more than 500,000 shares of stock to any one participant in a calendar year. Shares of stock issued in connection with awards other than options and stock appreciation rights will be counted against the shares available for grant under the 2007 Plan as two shares for every one share issued in connection with the award. Shares of stock issued in connection with the exercise of an option or stock appreciation right will be counted against the shares of stock available for grant as one share.
     Any shares of stock that are potentially deliverable under any award granted under the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2000 Director Equity Plan will be added to the number of shares of stock available for grant under the 2007 Plan if the award expires or is cancelled or terminated without a delivery of such shares to the participant. In addition, any shares of stock that have been issued in connection with any award granted under those plans (such as restricted stock or performance shares) will be added to the number of shares available for grant under the 2007 Plan if the award is cancelled, forfeited, or terminated such that those shares are returned to the Company.
     A summary of the 2007 Plan's principal provisions is set forth in the 2007 Proxy Statement, the pertinent provisions of which are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Form 8-K by reference. The 2007 Plan is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
     On February 20, 2007, Pinnacle West's Human Resources Committee, acting as the Committee under the 2007 Plan, granted conditional Restricted Stock Units to certain employees of the Company under the 2007 Plan. With the shareholder approval of the 2007 Plan, the restricted stock unit grants became effective.
Granting of Restricted Stock Units.
     Restricted Stock Units are incentive awards that vest over a number of years if the award recipient remains employed by Pinnacle West or one of its subsidiaries. Each Restricted Stock Unit represents the fair market value of one share of Pinnacle West's common stock on each vesting date (the "Fair Market Value"), as described in more detail below. The Restricted Stock Units:
Table of Contents
The following restricted Stock Unit grants were made to the "named executive officers" from the Company's proxy statement relating to its May 23, 2007 annual meeting of shareholders: William J. Post, Chairman of the Board and CEO  22,500; Jack E. Davis, President of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of Arizona Public Service Company ("APS")  10,000; Donald E. Brandt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and President and Chief Financial Officer of APS  10,000; and Armando B. Flores, Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Services of APS  3,543.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     On May 23, 2007, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's Articles of Incorporation to provide for the annual election of directors. A copy of the amended Articles of Incorporation is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.1. On January 17, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's Bylaws to provide for the annual election of all of the directors in order to make the Bylaws consistent with the change to the Articles of Incorporation. This amendment became effective on May 23, 2007 with the shareholders' approval of the amended Articles of Incorporation. A copy of the amended Bylaws is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.2. As a result of the approval of the amendment to the Company's Articles of Incorporation, the following individuals were elected at the 2007 Annual Meeting to serve as directors of the Company until the 2008 Annual Meeting: Mses. Pamela Grant and Kathryn L. Munro and Messrs. Edward N. Basha, Jr., Jack E. Davis, Michael L. Gallagher, Roy A. Herberger, Jr., William S. Jamieson, Humberto S. Lopez, Bruce J. Nordstrom, William J. Post and William L. Stewart.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 4.1
     : The name of the corporation is Pinnacle West Capital Corporation.
FIRST
     : The corporation is organized for the purpose of transacting any or all lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under Chapter 1 of Title 10, Arizona Revised Statutes, as at any time in effect. The character of business that the corporation initially intends to conduct is the acquisition and holding of securities of other corporations for investment purposes.
SECOND
     : The aggregate number of shares that the corporation shall have authority to issue is 160,000,000 divided into 150,000,000 shares of Common Stock, no par value, and 10,000,000 shares of Serial Preferred Stock, no par value. Each issued and outstanding share of Common Stock will entitle the holder thereof to one vote, except as may otherwise be provided by statute. Issued and outstanding shares of Serial Preferred Stock will entitle the holders thereof only to those votes, if any, that may expressly be fixed as hereinafter provided for the respective series thereof or as may otherwise be provided by statute.
THIRD
     The Board of Directors is authorized to provide from time to time for the issuance of shares of Serial Preferred Stock in series and to fix from time to time before issuance the designation, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the shares of each series of Serial Preferred Stock and the restrictions or qualifications thereof, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following:
 
     : The name and address of the current statutory agent of the corporation is CT Corporation System, 2934 East Camelback Road, Phoenix, Arizona 85016. The address of the known place of business of the corporation is 400 North 5th Street, Phoenix, Arizona 85004.
FOURTH
     : The Board of Directors of the corporation shall consist of not less than 9 nor more than 21 shareholders of the corporation or of any parent corporation thereof. Each director shall hold such office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. The foregoing notwithstanding, each director shall serve until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified.
FIFTH
     Except to fill vacancies resulting from the death or resignation of a director and except for nominations by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, nominations for directors must be made in writing at least 180 days prior to the date of the shareholders' meeting at which the election is to occur.
     : The corporation shall have the right to purchase, directly or indirectly, its own shares to the extent of the unreserved and unrestricted earned and capital surplus available therefor.
SIXTH
     : The Board of Directors may, from time to time, distribute on a pro rata basis to its shareholders out of capital surplus of the corporation a portion of its assets, in cash or property, and no shareholder authorization thereof shall be required.
SEVENTH
     : The corporation may create and issue rights or options to directors, officers or employees of the corporation or of any affiliate thereof, entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the corporation shares of any class or classes, and no shareholder approval or ratification thereof shall be required.
EIGHTH
 
     : The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in these Articles of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred on stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions set forth in Articles Third (with respect to Serial Preferred Stock) and Fifth and in this Article may not be repealed or amended in any respect unless such repeal or amendment is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of this corporation.
NINTH
     : A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability for any of the following:
TENTH
     If the Arizona General Corporation Law is amended after the date of these Articles of Incorporation to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, the liability of a director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the full extent permitted by the Arizona General Corporation Law, as amended.
     Any repeal or modification of this Article TENTH shall not increase the personal liability of any director of the corporation for any act or occurrence taking place prior to such repeal or modification or otherwise adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
     The provisions of this Article TENTH shall not be deemed to limit or preclude indemnification of a director by the corporation for any liability of a director which has not been eliminated by the provisions of this Article TENTH.

 
Exhibit 4.2
     . Any reference herein made to law will be deemed to refer to the law of the State of Arizona, including any applicable provision or provisions of Chapters 1-17 and Chapter 23 of Title 10, Arizona Revised Statutes (or its successor), as at any given time in effect. Any reference herein made to the Articles will be deemed to refer to the applicable provision or provisions of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, and all amendments thereto, as at any given time on file with the Arizona Corporation Commission (this reference to that Commission being intended to include any successor to the incorporating and related functions being performed by that Commission at the date of the initial adoption of these Bylaws).
1.01. References
     . Except as indicated in Part X of these Bylaws, the law and the Articles (in that order of precedence) will in all respects be considered senior and superior to these Bylaws, with any inconsistency to be resolved in favor of the law and the Articles (in that order of precedence), and with these Bylaws to be deemed automatically amended from time to time to eliminate any such inconsistency which may then exist.
1.02. Seniority
     . Except as otherwise required by law and subject to any procedure established by the Company pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes Section 10-723 (or any comparable successor provision), the word "" as used herein shall mean one who is a holder of record of shares of capital stock in the Company.
1.03. Shareholders of Record
shareholder
     . An annual meeting of shareholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place, either within or without the State of Arizona, as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting. A special meeting may be called and held in lieu of an annual meeting pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 below, and the same proceedings (including the election of directors) may be conducted thereat as at a regular meeting. Any director elected at any annual meeting, or special meeting in lieu of an annual meeting, will continue in office until the election of his or her successor, subject to his or her (a) earlier resignation pursuant to Section 6.01 below, (b) removal pursuant to Section 3.13 below, or (c) death or disqualification.
2.01. Annual Meetings
 
     . Except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of the shareholders may be held whenever and wherever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or a majority of the Board of Directors, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons. Business transacted at any special meeting of shareholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
2.02. Special Meetings
     . Notice of any meeting of the shareholders will be given as provided by law to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting and, if required by law, to each other shareholder of the Company. Any such notice may be waived as provided by law.
2.03. Notice
     . For each meeting of the shareholders, the Board of Directors will fix in advance a record date as contemplated by law, and the shares of stock and the shareholders "" (as that or any similar term is herein used) at any meeting of the shareholders will be determined as of the applicable record date. The Secretary (or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary) will see to the making and production of any record of shareholders entitled to vote or otherwise entitled to notice of shareholders meetings, in either case which is required by law. Any voting entitlement may be exercised through proxy, or in such other manner as specifically provided by law, in accordance with the applicable law. In the event of contest, the burden of proving the validity of any undated or irrevocable proxy will rest with the person seeking to exercise the same. A telegram, cablegram, or facsimile appearing to have been transmitted by a shareholder (or by his or her duly authorized attorney-in-fact) or other means of voting by telephone or electronic transmission may be accepted as a sufficiently written and executed proxy if otherwise permitted by law.
2.04. Right to Vote
entitled to vote
     .
2.05. Notice of Shareholder Business and Nominations
 
 
 
     . Except only to the extent of persons designated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting to assist in the conduct of the meeting (as referred to in Sections 2.08 and 2.09 below) and except as otherwise permitted by the Board or such Chairman, the persons entitled to attend any meeting of
2.06. Right to Attend
 
shareholders may be confined to (i) shareholders entitled to vote thereat and other shareholders entitled to notice of the meeting and (ii) the persons upon whom proxies valid for purposes of the meeting have been conferred or their duly appointed substitutes (if the related proxies confer a power of substitution); provided, however, that the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting may establish rules limiting the number of persons referred to in clause (ii) as being entitled to attend on behalf of any shareholder so as to preclude such an excessively large representation of such shareholder at the meeting as, in the judgment of the Board or such Chairman, would be unfair to other shareholders represented at the meeting or be unduly disruptive of the orderly conduct of business at such meeting (whether such representation would result from fragmentation of the aggregate number of shares held by such shareholder for the purpose of conferring proxies, from the naming of an excessively large proxy delegation by such shareholder or from employment of any other device). A person otherwise entitled to attend any such meeting will cease to be so entitled if, in the judgment of the Chairman of the meeting, such person engages thereat in disorderly conduct impeding the proper conduct of the meeting in the interests of all shareholders as a group.
     . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles or these Bylaws, at each meeting of shareholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum.
2.07. Quorum
     . The Board of Directors, in advance of any shareholders meeting may appoint an election inspector or inspectors to act at such meeting (and any adjournment thereof). If an election inspector or inspectors are not so appointed, the Chairman of the meeting may or, upon the request of any person entitled to vote at the meeting will, make such appointment. If any person appointed as an inspector fails to appear or to act, a substitute may be appointed by the Chairman of the meeting. If appointed, the election inspector or inspectors (acting through a majority of them if there be more than one) will determine the number of shares outstanding, the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies, the credentials of persons purporting to be shareholders or persons named or referred to in proxies, and the number of shares represented at the meeting in person and by proxy; they will receive and count votes, ballots and consents and announce the results thereof; they will hear and determine all challenges and questions pertaining to proxies and voting; and, in general, they will perform such acts as may be proper to conduct elections and voting with complete fairness to all shareholders. No such election inspector need be a shareholder of the Company.
2.08. Election Inspectors
     . Each shareholders meeting will be called to order and thereafter chaired by the Chairman of the Board if there then is one; or, if not, or if the Chairman of the Board is absent or so requests, then by the President; or if both the Chairman of the Board and the President are unavailable, then by such other officer of the Company or such shareholder as may be appointed by the Board of Directors. The Secretary (or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary) of the Company will act as secretary of each shareholders meeting; if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is in attendance, the Chairman of the meeting may
2.09. Organization and Conduct of Meetings
 
appoint any person (whether a shareholder or not) to act as secretary thereat. After calling a meeting to order, the Chairman thereof may require the registration of all shareholders intending to vote in person, and the filing of all proxies, with the election inspector or inspectors, if one or more have been appointed (or, if not, with the secretary of the meeting). After the announced time for such filing of proxies has ended, no further proxies or changes, substitutions or revocations of proxies will be accepted. If directors are to be elected, a tabulation of the proxies so filed will, if any person entitled to vote in such election so requests, be announced at the meeting (or adjournment thereof) prior to the closing of the election polls.
     Absent a showing of bad faith on his or her part, the Chairman of a meeting will, among other things, have absolute authority to determine the order of business to be conducted at such meeting and to establish rules for, and appoint personnel to assist in, preserving the orderly conduct of the business of the meeting (including any informal, or question and answer, portions thereof). Rules, regulations or procedures regarding the conduct of the business of a meeting, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies (subject to Section 2.06) or such other persons as the Chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure. Any informational or other informal session of shareholders conducted under the auspices of the Company after the conclusion of or otherwise in conjunction with any formal business meeting of the shareholders will be chaired by the same person who chairs the formal meeting, and the foregoing authority on his or her part will extend to the conduct of such informal session.
     . The number of shares voted on any matter submitted to the shareholders which is required to constitute their action thereon or approval thereof will be determined in accordance with applicable law, the Articles, and these Bylaws, if applicable. No ballot or change of vote will be accepted after the polls have been declared closed following the ending of the announced time for voting.
2.10. Voting
     . The Board of Directors may submit any contract or act for approval or ratification at any duly constituted meeting of the shareholders, the notice of which either includes mention of the proposed submittal or is waived as provided in Section 2.03 above. Except as otherwise required by law (e.g., Arizona Revised Statutes Section 10-863), if any contract or act so submitted is approved or ratified by a majority of the votes cast thereon at such meeting, the same will be valid and as binding upon the Company and all of its shareholders as it would be if approved and ratified by each and every shareholder of the Company.
2.11. Shareholder Approval or Ratification
 
     . The provisions of Section 10-2721 through and including Section 10-2727 of the Arizona Revised Statutes shall not apply to the Company.
2.12. Control Share Act
     . Any meeting of shareholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Company may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than one hundred and twenty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.13. Adjournments
     . The Board of Directors of the corporation shall consist of not less than nine (9) nor more than twenty-one (21) shareholders of the Company or of any parent corporation thereof. Each director shall be elected annually and hold office in the manner provided by law and in the Articles (Art. Fifth). The Board will have the exclusive power to increase or decrease its size within such limits. Any vacancy occurring in the Board, whether by reason of death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the directors as contemplated by law and as provided in the Articles (Art. Fifth). Any such increase in the size of the Board, and the filling of any vacancy created thereby, will require action by a majority of the whole membership of the Board as comprised immediately before such increase.
3.01. Membership
     . In order to qualify as a director, a person must be the owner of one or more shares of the capital stock of the Company or of any parent corporation thereof at the time of assuming office (except as may otherwise be provided in these Bylaws or in the Articles) and for so long thereafter as such person remains in office. A person will cease to qualify as a director if he or she (i) is in good faith determined by a majority of the other directors then in office to be physically or mentally incapable of competent performance as a director for a period, starting with inception of the incapacity, that has extended or is likely to extend for more than six months or (ii) has failed to attend six successive regular meetings of the Board (as determined in accordance with Section 3.03 below) unless and to the extent such failure is waived by a majority of the other directors then in office; however, disqualification pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of this sentence will not preclude the subsequent election or appointment of such person as a director by the shareholders or the Board if a majority of the directors in office immediately prior to the submission of such person for election or appointment shall determine that his or her prior incapacity or principal reason for prior non-attendance no longer exists. A person will not qualify for election or appointment as a director, whether initially or on re-election and whether by the shareholders at their annual meeting or by the Board of Directors as contemplated in Section 3.01 above, if such person's 72nd birthday occurs on or has occurred before the date of such election, appointment or re-election. A person who has been a full-time
3.02. Qualifications
 
employee of the Company within twelve months prior to the date of any election will not qualify for election as a director on that date unless he or she then remains a full-time employee of the Company or unless the Board of Directors specifically authorizes the election of such person (but it is not intended that any such authorization will extend a person's service on the Board beyond the age limitation set out in the preceding sentence). A person who has qualified by age or employment status for his or her most recent election as a director may serve throughout the term for which such person was elected, notwithstanding the occurrence of his or her 72nd birthday or cessation of full-time employment by the Company between the date of such election and the end of such term, subject, however, to his or her otherwise remaining qualified for such office.
     . A regular annual meeting of the directors is to be held as soon as practicable after the adjournment of each annual shareholders meeting either at the place of the shareholders meeting or at such other place as the directors elected at the shareholders meeting may have been informed of at or before the time of their election. Regular meetings, other than the annual ones, may be held at such intervals at such places and at such times as the Board of Directors may provide.
3.03. Regular Meetings
     . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held whenever and wherever called for by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the number of directors which would be required to constitute a quorum.
3.04. Special Meetings
     . No notice need be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of the time and place (but not necessarily the purpose or all of the purposes) of any special meeting will be given to each director in person or by telephone, or via mail, telegram, facsimile, or other electronic transmission addressed in the manner appearing on the Company's records. Notice to any director of any such special meeting will be deemed given sufficiently in advance when (i) if given by mail, the same is deposited in the United States mail at least four days before the meeting date, with postage thereon prepaid, (ii) if given by telegram, the same is delivered to the telegraph office for fast transmittal at least 48 hours prior to the convening of the meeting, (iii) if given by facsimile or other electronic transmission, the same is received by the director or an adult member of his or her office staff or household, at least 24 hours prior to the convening of the meeting, or (iv) if personally delivered or given by telephone, the same is handed, or the substance thereof is communicated over the telephone to the director or to an adult member of his or her office staff or household, at least 24 hours prior to the convening of the meeting. Any such notice may be waived as provided by law. No call or notice of a meeting of directors will be necessary if each of them waives the same in writing or by attendance. Any meeting, once properly called and noticed (or as to which call and notice have been waived as aforesaid) and at which a quorum is formed, may be adjourned to another time and place by a majority of those in attendance.
3.05. Notice
     . A quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting or adjourned meeting of the directors will consist of a majority of those then in office. Any matter submitted to a meeting of the directors will be resolved by a majority of the votes cast thereon, except as otherwise required by these Bylaws ( 3.01 and
3.06. Quorum; Voting
 
3.02 above and  3.07 below), by law or by any applicable Article. Where action by a majority of the whole membership is required, such requirement will be deemed to relate to a majority of the directors in office at the time the action is taken. In computing any such majority, whether for purposes of determining the presence of a quorum or the adequacy of the vote on any proposed action, any unfilled vacancies at the time existing in the membership of the Board will be excluded from the computation.
     . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board, name three or more of its members as an Executive Committee. Such Executive Committee will have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company while the Board is not in session, except only as precluded by law or where action other than by a majority of the votes cast is required by these Bylaws, or the law (all as referred to in Section 3.06 above), and subject to such limitations as may be included in any applicable resolution passed by a majority of the whole membership of the Board. A majority of those named to the Executive Committee will constitute a quorum.
3.07. Executive Committee
     . The Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Company. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, and may authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers that may require it.
3.08. Other Committees
     . Notice requirements and related waiver provisions for meetings of the Executive Committee and other committees of the Board will be the same as those set forth in Section 3.05 above for meetings of the Board of Directors. Except as provided in the next two succeeding sentences, a majority of those named to the Executive Committee or any other committee of the Board will constitute a quorum at any meeting thereof (with the effect of departure of committee members from a meeting and the computation of a majority of committee members to be in accordance with the applicable policies of Section 3.06 above), and any matter submitted to a meeting of any such committee will be resolved by a majority of the votes cast thereon. No distinction will be made among ex-officio or other members of any such committee for quorum, voting or other purposes, except that the membership of any committee (including the Executive Committee), in performing any function vested in it as herein contemplated, may be deemed to exclude any officer or employee of the Company, in either case, or other person having a direct or indirect personal interest in any proposed exercise of such function, whose exclusion for that purpose is deemed appropriate by a majority of the other members of such committee proposing to perform such function. All committees are to keep regular minutes of the transactions of their meetings.
3.09. Committee Functioning
 
     . Any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be held by conference telephone or similar communications equipment as permitted by law, in which case any required notice of such meeting may generally describe the arrangements (rather than the place) for the holding thereof, and all other provisions herein contained or referred to will apply to such meeting as though it were physically held at a single place. Action may also be taken by the Board or any committee thereof without a meeting if the members thereof consent in writing thereto as contemplated by law.
3.10. Action by Telephone or Consent
     . A director of the Company who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to the action taken unless either (i) the director objects at the beginning of the meeting or promptly on the director's arrival to holding it or transacting business at the meeting; (ii) the director's dissent or abstention from the action taken is entered in the minutes of the meeting; or (iii) the director delivers written notice of the director's dissent or abstention to the presiding officer of the meeting before its adjournment or to the Company before 5:00 P.M. on the next business day after the meeting. The right of dissent or abstention is not available to a director who votes in favor of the action taken.
3.11. Presumption of Assent
     . By resolution of the Board, the directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee, and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each such meeting and/or a stated salary as a director or committee member. No such payment will preclude any director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
3.12. Compensation
     . Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, only at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose, if the votes cast in favor of such removal exceed the votes cast against such removal, except that if less than the entire Board of Directors is to be removed, no one of the directors may be removed if the votes cast against the director's removal would be sufficient to elect the director if then cumulatively voted at an election for the class of directors of which the director is a part.
3.13. Removal
     . The directors may elect or appoint one or more of the officers of the Company contemplated in Part V below. Any such election or appointment will regularly take place at the annual meeting of the directors, but elections of officers may be held at any other meeting of the Board. A person elected or appointed to any office will continue to hold that office until the election or appointment of his or her successor, subject to action earlier taken pursuant to Section 4.04 or 6.01 below. Any person may hold more than one office.
4.01. Elections and Appointments
     . In addition to the officers contemplated in Part V below, the Board of Directors may create other corporate positions, and appoint
4.02. Additional Appointments
 
persons thereto, with such authority to perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, by the President or by the superior officer of any person so appointed. Notwithstanding such additional appointments, only those persons whose offices are described in Part V are to be considered an officer of the Company unless the resolution or other Board action appointing such person expressly states that such person is to be considered an officer of the Company. Each of such persons (in the order designated by the Board or the superior officer of such person) will be vested with all of the powers and charged with all of the duties of his or her superior officer in the event of such superior officer's absence or disability.
     . The Board of Directors may require any officer or other appointee to give bond to the Company (with sufficient surety, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position) and to comply with such other conditions as may from time to time be required of him or her by the Board.
4.03. Bonds and Other Requirements
     . Provided that a majority of the whole membership thereof concurs therein, the Board of Directors may remove any officer of the Company as provided by law and declare his or her office or offices vacant or abolished or, in the case of the absence or disability of any officer or for any other reason considered sufficient, may temporarily delegate his or her powers and duties to any other officer or to any director. Similar action may be taken by the Board of Directors in regard to appointees designated pursuant to Section 4.02 above.
4.04. Removal or Delegation
     . Officer salaries may from time to time be fixed by the Board of Directors or (except as to his or her own) be left to the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer or the President. No officer will be prevented from receiving a salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Company.
4.05. Salaries
     . The Board of Directors may elect a Chairman to serve as a general executive officer of the Company and, if specifically designated as such by the Board, as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. If elected, the Chairman will preside at all meetings of the directors and be vested with such other powers and duties as the Board may from time to time delegate to him or her.
5.01. Chairman of the Board
     . Subject to the control of the Board of Directors exercised as hereinafter provided, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company will supervise its business and affairs and the performance of their respective duties by all other officers, by appointees designated pursuant to Section 4.02 above, and by such additional appointees to such additional positions (corporate, divisional or otherwise) as the Chief Executive Officer may designate, with authority on his or her part to delegate the foregoing duty of supervision to such extent and to such person or persons as may be determined by the Chief Executive Officer. Except as otherwise indicated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, its management of the business and
5.02. Chief Executive Officer
 
affairs of the Company will be implemented through the office of the Chief Executive Officer.
     . Unless specified to the contrary by resolution of the Board of Directors, the President will be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. In addition to the supervisory functions above set forth on the part of the Chief Executive Officer or in lieu thereof if a contrary specification is made by the Board relative to the Chief Executive Officer, the President will be vested with such powers and duties as the Board may from time to time designate. Vice Presidents may be elected by the Board of Directors to perform such duties as may be designated by the Board or be assigned or delegated to them by their respective superior officers. The Board may identify (i) one or more Vice Presidents as "Executive" or "Senior" Vice Presidents and (ii) the President or any Vice President as "General Manager" of the Company and the title of any Vice President may include words indicative of his or her particular area of responsibility and authority. Vice Presidents will succeed to the responsibilities and authority of the President, in the event of his or her absence or disability, in the order consistent with their respective titles or regular duties or as specifically designated by the Board of Directors.
5.03. President and Vice Presidents
     . The Treasurer and Secretary each will perform all such duties normally associated with his or her office (including, in the case of the Secretary, the giving of notice and the preparation and retention of minutes of corporate proceedings and the custody of corporate records and the seal of the Company) as are not assigned to a Vice President of the Company, along with such other duties as may be designated by the Board or be assigned or delegated to them by their respective superior officers. The Board may appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers or Assistant Secretaries, each of whom (in the order designated by the Board or their respective superior officers) will be vested with all of the powers and charged with all of the duties of the Treasurer or the Secretary (as the case may be) in the event of his or her absence or disability.
5.04. Treasurer and Secretary
     . Except as may otherwise be specifically provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors, any of the officers referred to in this Part V will be a proper officer to authenticate records of the Company and to sign on behalf of the Company any deed, bill of sale, assignment, option, mortgage, pledge, note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, application, consent (to service of process or otherwise), agreement, indenture or other instrument of importance to the Company. Any such officer may represent the Company at any meeting of the shareholders or members of any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other entity in which this Company then has an interest, and may vote such interest in person or by proxy appointed by him or her, provided that the Board of Directors may from time to time confer the foregoing authority upon any other person or persons.
5.05. Specific Powers
     . Any director, committee member or officer may resign from his or her office at any time by written notice as specified in accordance with
6.01. Resignations
 
Arizona Revised Statutes Sections 10-807 and 10-843. The acceptance of a resignation will not be required to make it effective.
     . If the office of any director, committee member or officer becomes vacant by reason of his or her death, resignation, disqualification, removal or otherwise, the Board of Directors may choose a successor to hold office for the unexpired term.
6.02. Vacancies
     . In order to induce qualified persons to serve the Company (and any other corporation, joint venture, partnership, trust or other enterprise at the request of the Company) as directors and officers, the Company shall indemnify any and all of its directors and officers, or former directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended.
7.01. Indemnification
     . Any transaction involving the Company, any of its subsidiary corporations or any of its directors, officers, employees or agents which at any time is questioned in any manner or context (including a shareholders derivative suit), on the ground of lack of authority, conflict of interest, misleading or omitted statement of fact or law, nondisclosure, miscomputation, improper principles or practices of accounting, inadequate records, defective or irregular execution or any similar ground, may be investigated and/or ratified (before or after judgment), or an election may be made not to institute or pursue a claim or legal proceedings on account thereof or to accept or approve a negotiated settlement with respect thereto (before or after the institution of legal proceedings), by the Board of Directors or by a special committee thereof comprised of one or more disinterested directors (that is, a director or directors who did not participate in the questioned transaction with actual knowledge of the questioned aspect or aspects thereof). Such a special committee may be validly formed and fully empowered to act, in accordance with the purposes and duties assigned thereto, by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, notwithstanding (i) the inclusion of Board members who are not disinterested as aforesaid among those who form a quorum at the meeting or meetings at which one or more members of such special committee are elected or appointed to the Board or to such special committee or at which such committee is formed or empowered, or their inclusion among the directors who vote upon or otherwise participate in taking any of the foregoing actions, or (ii) the taking of any of such actions by the disinterested members of the Board (or a majority of such members) whose number is not sufficient to constitute a quorum or a majority of the membership of the full Board. Any such special committee so comprised will, to the full extent consistent with its purposes and duties as expressed in such resolution or resolutions, have all of the authority and powers of the full Board and its Executive Committee (the same as though it were the full Board and/or its Executive Committee in carrying out such purposes and duties) and will function in accordance with Section 3.09 above. No other provisions of these Bylaws which may at any time appear to conflict with any provisions of this Section 7.02, and no defect or irregularity in the formation, empowering or functioning of any such special committee, will serve to impede, impair or bring into
7.02. Ratification; Special Committee
 
question any action taken or purported to be taken by such committee or the validity of any such action. Any ratification of a transaction pursuant to this Section 7.02 will have the same force and effect as if the transaction has been duly authorized originally. Any such ratification, and any election made pursuant to this Section 7.02 with respect to claims, legal proceedings or settlements, will be binding upon the Company and its shareholders and will constitute a bar to any claim or the execution of any judgment in respect of the transaction involved in such ratification or election.
     . The seal of the Company will have inscribed thereon the name of the Company, the state and year of its incorporation and the words "SEAL".
8.01. Form Thereof
     . Shares shall be issued in uncertificated form pursuant to the customary arrangements for issuing shares in such form. This requirement shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, every holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request any holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate in such form as approved by the Board of Directors.
9.01. Form Thereof
     . The Company will be entitled to treat the registered owner of any share as the absolute owner thereof and accordingly, will not be bound to recognize any beneficial, equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it has notice thereof, except as may expressly be provided by Chapter 8 of Title 47, Arizona Revised Statutes (or its successor), as at the time in effect, or other applicable law.
9.02. Ownership
     . Transfer of stock will be made on the books of the Company as follows: (i) with respect to certificated shares, only upon surrender of the certificate therefor, duly endorsed by an appropriate person, with such assurance of the genuineness and effectiveness of the endorsement as the Company may require, all as contemplated by Chapter 8 of Title 47, Arizona Revised Statutes (or its successor), as at the time in effect, and/or upon submission of any affidavit, other document or notice which the Company considers necessary; and (ii) with respect to uncertificated shares, upon compliance with the customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form.
9.03. Transfers
     . In the event of the loss, theft or destruction of any certificate representing capital stock of this Company, the Company may issue (or, in the case of any such stock as to which a transfer agent and/or registrar have been appointed, may direct such transfer agent and/or registrar to countersign, register and issue) a replacement certificate in lieu of that alleged to be lost, stolen or destroyed, and cause the same to be delivered to the owner of the stock represented thereby, provided that the owner shall have submitted such evidence showing the circumstances of the alleged loss, theft or destruction, and his or her ownership of the certificate as the
9.04. Lost Certificates
 
Company considers satisfactory, together with any other factors which the Company considers pertinent, and further provided that an indemnity agreement and/or indemnity bond shall have been provided in form and amount satisfactory to the Company and to its transfer agent and/or registrar, if applicable.
     . The emergency Bylaws provided in this Part X will be as effective in the event of an emergency as prescribed in Arizona Revised Statutes Section 10-207.D. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Part X, these Bylaws will remain in effect during such emergency and upon its termination, these emergency Bylaws will cease to be operative.
10.01. Emergency Conditions
     . During any such emergency, a meeting of the Board of Directors or any of its committees may be called by any officer or director of the Company. Notice of the time and place of the meeting will be given by the person calling the same to those of the directors whom it may be feasible to reach by any available means of communication. Such notice will be given so much in advance of the meeting as circumstances permit in the judgment of the person calling the same. At any Board or committee meeting held during any such emergency, a quorum will consist of a majority of those who could reasonably be expected to attend the meeting if they were willing to do so, but in no event more than a majority of those to whom notice of such meeting is required to have been given as above provided.
10.02. Board Meetings
     . The Board of Directors, either before or during any such emergency, may provide and from time to time modify lines of succession in the event that during such an emergency any or all officers, appointees, employees or agents of the Company are for any reason rendered incapable of discharging their duties. The Board, either before or during any such emergency, may, effective in the emergency, change the head office or designate several alternative head offices of the Company, or authorize the officers to do so.
10.03. Certain Actions
     . No director, officer, appointee, employee or agent acting in accordance with these emergency Bylaws will be liable except for willful misconduct.
10.04. Liability
     . These emergency Bylaws will be subject to repeal or change by further action of the Board of Directors, but no such repeal or change will modify the provisions of Section 10.04 with respect to action taken prior to the time of such repeal or change. Any amendment of these emergency Bylaws may make any further or different provisions that may be practical and necessary for the circumstances of the emergency.
10.05. Modifications
     . Subject to such restrictions or requirements as may be imposed by law or the Company's Articles or as may otherwise be binding upon the Company, the Board of Directors may from time to time declare dividends on stock of the Company outstanding on the dates of record fixed by the Board, to be paid in cash,
11.01. Declaration
 
in property or in shares of the Company's stock on or as of such payment or distribution dates as the Board may prescribe.
     . In these Bylaws, the following definitions shall apply:
12.01. Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Requirements after Three Years. Except for the provisions of Sections 12.02 and 12.04, the Company may not engage at any time in any business combination or vote, consent, or otherwise act to authorize a subsidiary of the Company to engage in any business combination with respect to, proposed by, on behalf of, or pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding, whether or not in writing, with an interested shareholder of the Company or any affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder other than a business combination meeting all the requirements of this Article XII, the Articles, and the requirements specified in any of the following:
12.03.
 
 
 
 
     . This Article XII does not apply to any business combination of the Company with an interested shareholder of the Company who became an interested shareholder inadvertently, if the interested shareholder both:
12.04. Application
     . The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, purchase or agree to purchase any shares entitled to vote from a person who beneficially owns more than five per cent (5%) of the voting stock of the Company for more than the "average market price" of the shares if the shares have been beneficially owned by the person or persons for less than three (3) years, unless either (i) the purchase or agreement to purchase is approved at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting stock entitled to vote excluding shares beneficially owned by such person, by any of such person's affiliates or associates, or by any officer or director of the Company or (ii) the Company makes an offer, of at least equal value per share, to all holders of shares of such class or series and to all holders of any class or series into which the shares may be converted.
13.01. Limitation on Share Repurchases
 
     . For the purposes of this Article, "" means the average closing sale price during the thirty trading days immediately preceding the purchase of the shares in question, or if the person or persons have commenced a tender offer or have announced an intention to seek control of the Company, during the thirty trading days preceding the earlier of the commencement of the tender offer or the making of the announcement, of a share on the composite tape for New York Stock Exchange listed shares or, if the shares are not quoted on the composite tape or not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on which the shares are listed or, if the shares are not listed on any such exchange, on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations National Market System or, if the shares are not quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations National Market System, the average closing bid quotation, during the thirty trading days preceding the purchase of the shares in questions of a share on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or if the person or persons have commenced a tender offer or have announced an intention to seek control of the issuing public corporation, during the thirty trading days preceding the earlier of the commencement of the tender offer or the making of the announcement, except that if no quotation is available the average market price is the fair market value on the date of purchase of the shares in question of a share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company.
13.02. Definitions
average market price
     . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, supplemented, repealed, or temporarily or permanently suspended, in whole or in part, or replacement Bylaw provisions adopted by: (i) the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office; or (ii) the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on such matter(s) at a meeting of shareholders.
14.01. Amendment of Bylaws
 
     I, NANCY C. LOFTIN, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, an Arizona corporation, do HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Company's Bylaws, as amended, and that they are in full force and effect as of the date hereof.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the corporation this 23 day of May, 2007.
rd

 
Exhibit 10.1
     1.1 . The purpose of the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") is to promote the success and enhance the value of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "") by linking the personal interests of the Participants to those of Company shareholders and by providing the Participants with an incentive for outstanding performance to generate superior returns to Company shareholders. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of the Participants upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent.
GENERAL
Plan
Company
     2.1 . The Plan is effective as of the date the Plan is approved by the Company's shareholders (the ""). The Committee may nonetheless make contingent Awards before the Effective Date provided that the vesting, exercise, or payment of such Awards is expressly conditioned on shareholder approval and the Awards are void if shareholders do not approve the Plan.
EFFECTIVE DATE
Effective Date
     2.2 . The Plan will expire on, and no Award may be granted under the Plan after, the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Any Awards that are outstanding on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date shall remain in force according to the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement.
EXPIRATION DATE
     3.1 . The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
DEFINITIONS
          (a) "" shall mean (i) a corporation other than the Company that is a member of a "controlled group of corporations" (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code as modified by Section 415(h) of the Code) or (ii) a group of trades or businesses under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code as modified by Section 415(h) of the Code), which in the case of either clause (i) or (ii) also includes the Company as a member. For purposes of determining whether an event constitutes a Change of Control within the meaning of , "Affiliate"
Affiliate
Section 3.1(g)
 
status shall be determined on the day immediately preceding the date of the transaction or event.
          (b) "" shall mean Arizona Public Service Company, a Subsidiary of the Company.
APS
          (c) "" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Performance Share, Performance Share Unit, Performance Cash, Stock Grant, Dividend Equivalent, or Restricted Stock Unit granted to a Participant under the Plan.
Award
          (d) "" means any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing an Award.
Award Agreement
          (e) "" shall have the same meaning as given to that term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act, provided that any pledgee of the voting securities of the Company or APS shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner thereof prior to its disposition of, or acquisition of voting rights with respect to, such securities.
Beneficial Owner
          (f) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
          (g) "" means and includes each of the following events:
Change of Control
               (1) Any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) or used in Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than an Affiliate, through a transaction or series of transactions, is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company or APS representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company or APS, as the case may be; provided, however, that, for purposes of this Section 1(g), any acquisition directly from the Company shall not constitute a Change of Control;
               (2) A merger or consolidation of (A) the Company with any other corporation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or an Affiliate, less than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (B) APS with any other corporation which would result in the voting securities of APS outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or an Affiliate, less than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the securities of APS or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; provided
 
that, for purposes of this subparagraph (2), a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company or of APS (or similar transaction) in which no person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company or of APS representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company or of APS (excluding any securities acquired by that person directly from the Company or an Affiliate) shall not result in a Change of Control; or
               (3) The sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either the Company or APS to a Person other than the Company or an Affiliate; or
               (4) Individuals who, as of July 31, 2005, constitute the board of directors of the Company (the "Company Incumbent Board") or of APS (the "APS Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Company or APS board of directors, as the case may be; provided, however, that for purposes of this subparagraph (4), (A)(1) any person becoming a member of the Company board of directors after July 31, 2005 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members then comprising the Company Incumbent Board will be, considered as though such person were a member of the Company Incumbent Board and (2) the Company Incumbent Board shall not include a director whose initial assumption of office as a director was in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of directors, and (B)(1) any person becoming a member of the APS board of directors after July 31, 2005 whose election, or nomination for election by APS' shareholder(s), was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members then comprising the APS Incumbent Board or by the Company, as a majority shareholder of APS, considered as though such person were a member of the APS Incumbent Board and (2) the APS Incumbent Board shall not include a director whose initial assumption of office as a director was in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of directors.
The Award Agreement for any Award subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code may prescribe a different definition of Change of Control that will apply for purposes of that Award Agreement and that complies with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
          (h) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          (i) "" means the committee of the Board described in .
Committee
Section 4.1
          (j) "" means an employee who is, or could be, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Covered Employee
 
          (k) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive the equivalent value (in cash or Stock) of dividends paid on Stock.
Dividend Equivalent
Article 10
          (l) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          (m) "" means, as of any given date, the fair market value of one share of Stock on such date determined by such methods or procedures as may be established from time to time by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock as of any date shall be the closing price for the Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on any national securities exchange on which the Stock is then listed) for that date or, if no such prices are reported for that date, the closing price on the next preceding date for which such prices were reported.
Fair Market Value
          (n) "" means an Option that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
Incentive Stock Option
          (o) "" means an Option that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
          (p) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Option
Article 7
          (q) "" means a person who has been granted an Award pursuant to the Plan.
Participant
          (r) "" means an Award granted to select Covered Employees pursuant to , respectively, which is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in . All Performance-Based Awards are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code.
Performance-Based Award
Articles 9 and 10
Article 11
          (s) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive a cash payment contingent on achieving certain performance goals established by the Committee.
Performance Cash
Article 10
          (t) "" means the criteria, or any combination of criteria, that the Committee selects for purposes of establishing the Performance Goal or Performance Goals for a Participant for a Performance Period. The Performance Criteria that will be used to establish Performance Goals are limited to the following: EBITDA; EBIT; costs; operating income; net income; cash flow; operating cash flow; net cash flow; fuel cost per million BTU; costs per kilowatt hour; retained earnings; budget achievement; return on equity; return on assets; return on capital employed; return on invested capital; cash available to Company from a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries; expense spending; O&M expense; O&M or capital per kilowatt hour; gross margin; net margin;
Performance Criteria
 
market capitalization; customer satisfaction; revenues; financial return ratios; market share; shareholder return and/or value (including but not limited to total shareholder return); operating profits (including earnings before or after income taxes, depreciation and amortization); net profits; earnings per share; earnings per share growth; profit returns and margins; stock price; working capital; business trends; production cost; project milestones; capacity utilization; quality; economic value added; plant and equipment performance; operating efficiency; diversity; debt; dividends; bond ratings; corporate governance; and health and safety (including environmental health and safety). The Committee shall, within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, define in an objective fashion the manner of calculating the Performance Criteria it selects to use for a particular Performance Period for a particular Participant.
          (u) "" means, for a Performance Period, the goals established in writing by the Committee for the Performance Period based upon the Performance Criteria. Depending on the Performance Criteria used to establish such Performance Goals, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division, business unit, plant, or an individual. The Performance Goals may be stated in terms of absolute levels or relative to another company or companies or to an index or indices.
Performance Goals
          (v) "" means the one or more periods of time, which may be of varying and overlapping durations, as the Committee may select, over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Participant's right to, and the payment of, a Performance-Based Award.
Performance Period
          (w) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive Stock, the payment of which is contingent upon achieving certain performance goals established by the Committee.
Performance Share
Article 10
          (x) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive Stock or cash, the payment of which is contingent upon achieving certain performance goals established by the Committee.
Performance Share Unit
Article 10
          (y) "" means this Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
          (z) "" means the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2000 Director Equity Plan and the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Prior Plans
          (aa) "" means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
Restricted Stock
Article 9
          (bb) "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive Stock or cash, the payment of which is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
Restricted Stock Unit
Article 10
 
          (cc) "" means the common stock of the Company or any security that may be substituted for Stock or into which Stock may be changed pursuant to .
Stock
Article 13
          (dd) "" means the grant of Stock to a Participant pursuant to .
Stock Grant Award
Article 10
          (ee) "" or "" means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to to receive the appreciation on one share of Stock.
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR
Article 8
          (ff) "" means any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
Subsidiary
     4.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Human Resources Committee of the Board. The Committee (or subcommittee thereof) shall consist of at least two individuals, each of whom qualifies as (a) a "non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act, and (b) an "outside director" pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder.
COMMITTEE
     4.2 . A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, and acts approved in writing by all of the members of the Committee in lieu of a meeting, shall be deemed the acts of the Committee. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Company's independent registered public accountants, or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company or the Committee to assist in the administration of the Plan.
ACTION BY THE COMMITTEE
     4.3 . Subject to any specific designation in the Plan, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE
          (a) designate Participants to receive Awards;
          (b) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant;
          (c) determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of shares of Stock to which an Award will relate;
          (d) determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted pursuant to the Plan, including, but not limited to, the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price, any restrictions or limitations on the Award, any schedule for lapse of forfeiture
 
restrictions or restrictions on the exercisability of an Award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines; provided, however, that the Committee shall not (i) have the authority to accelerate the vesting or waive the forfeiture of any Performance-Based Awards, or (ii) take any action or fail to take any action with respect to the operation of the Plan that would cause all or part of the payment under any Award to be subject to the additional tax under Section 409A of the Code;
          (e) determine whether, to what extent, and pursuant to what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered;
          (f) prescribe the form of each Award Agreement, which need not be identical for each Participant;
          (g) decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
          (h) establish, adopt, or revise any rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
          (i) interpret the terms of, and any matter arising pursuant to, the Plan or any Award Agreement; and
          (j) make all other decisions and determinations that may be required pursuant to the Plan or an Award Agreement as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan.
     4.4 . The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted pursuant to the Plan, any Award Agreement and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties.
DECISIONS BINDING
     5.1 . Subject to the possible increases provided by Section 5.2 with respect to shares that become available under the Prior Plans and the adjustment provided in , the aggregate number of shares of Stock reserved and available for grant pursuant to the Plan shall be [8,000,000]. Any shares of Stock issued in connection with Awards other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against the shares available for grant pursuant to the previous sentence as two shares for every one share issued in connection with such Award. Any shares of Stock issued in connection with the exercise of an Option or SAR shall be counted against the shares of Stock available for grant as one share.
NUMBER OF SHARES
Article 13
 
     5.2 . Shares of Stock that are potentially deliverable under any Award that expires or is canceled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise terminated without a delivery of such shares to the Participant will not be counted against the limit set forth in . In addition, shares of Stock that have been issued in connection with any Award (e.g., Restricted Stock) that is canceled, forfeited, or settled in cash such that those shares are returned to the Company will again be available for grant. Any shares of Stock that are potentially deliverable under any award granted under a Prior Plan will be added to the number of shares of Stock available for grant under if the award expires or is canceled or terminated without a delivery of such shares to the Participant. In addition, any shares of Stock that have been issued in connection with any award granted under a Prior Plan will be added to the number of shares available for grant under if the award is canceled, forfeited or terminated such that those shares are returned to the Company. This shall apply to the share limit imposed to conform to the regulations promulgated under the Code with respect to Incentive Stock Options only to the extent consistent with applicable regulations relating to Incentive Stock Options under the Code. The payment of Dividend Equivalents in conjunction with any outstanding Awards shall not be counted against the shares available for issuance under the Plan if the Dividend Equivalents are paid in cash. The exercise of a stock-settled SAR or net-cashless exercise of an Option (or a portion thereof) will reduce the number of shares of Stock available for issuance pursuant to by the entire number of shares of Stock subject to that SAR or Option (or applicable portion thereof), even though a smaller number of shares of Stock will be issued upon such an exercise. Also, shares of Stock tendered to pay the exercise price of an Option or tendered or withheld to satisfy a tax withholding obligation arising in connection with an Award will not become available for grant or sale under the Plan. The Committee may adopt such other reasonable rules and procedures as it deems to be appropriate for purposes of determining the number of shares of Stock that are available for Awards pursuant to .
SHARE CALCULATIONS
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
Section 5.2
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
     5.3 . Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
STOCK DISTRIBUTED
     5.4 . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, and subject to the adjustment in , the maximum number of shares (counted, as described in above) of Stock with respect to one or more Awards that may be granted to any one Participant during a calendar year shall be 500,000.
INDIVIDUAL LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF SHARES SUBJECT TO AWARDS
Article 13
Sections 5.1 and 5.2
 
     6.1 . Persons eligible to participate in this Plan include members of the Board, employees and officers of the Company or a Subsidiary and consultants and advisors providing services to the Company or a Subsidiary, all as determined by the Committee (or in the case of Board members, the Board). Prospective members of the Board, employees or officers of, and consultants and advisors to, the Company or a Subsidiary to whom Awards are granted in connection with written offers of an employment, consulting or advisory relationship with the Company or a Subsidiary also may be granted Awards by the Committee (or in the case of Board members, the Board). The provisions of any Award granted to a prospective member of the Board, employee, officer, consultant or advisor must specifically provide that no portion of the Award will vest, become exercisable or be issued prior to the date on which such individual begins providing services to the Company or any Subsidiary.
ELIGIBILITY
     6.2 . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from among all eligible individuals, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award. No individual shall have any right to be granted an Award pursuant to this Plan.
ACTUAL PARTICIPATION
     7.1 . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GENERAL
          (a) . The exercise price per share of Stock pursuant to an Option shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement; provided that the exercise price for any Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the date of grant.
Exercise Price
          (b) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part provided that the term of any Option granted under the Plan shall not exceed ten years. The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised.
Time and Conditions of Exercise
          (c) . The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, promissory note, shares of Stock held for longer than six months (through actual tender or by attestation), or other property acceptable to the Committee (including broker-assisted "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which shares of Stock shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants.
Payment
          (d) . All Options shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement. The Award Agreement shall reflect the Committee's determinations
Evidence of Grant
 
regarding the exercise price, time and conditions of exercise, and forms of payment for the Option and such additional provisions as may be specified by the Committee.
          (e) . The Committee shall not reprice any Options previously granted under the Plan.
Repricing of Options
     7.2 . Incentive Stock Options shall be granted only to Participants who are employees and the terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan must comply with the following additional provisions of this :
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
Section 7.2
          (a) . Subject to , the exercise price per share of Stock shall be set by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Incentive Stock Option may not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the date of the grant.
Exercise Price
Section 7.2(e)
          (b) . In no event may any Incentive Stock Option be exercisable for more than ten years from the date of its grant.
Exercise
          (c) . An Incentive Stock Option shall lapse in the following circumstances:
Lapse of Option
               (1) The Incentive Stock Option shall lapse ten years from the date it is granted, unless an earlier time is set in the Award Agreement.
               (2) The Incentive Stock Option shall lapse upon termination of employment for any reason other than the Participant's death or disability, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
               (3) If the Participant terminates employment on account of disability or death before the Option lapses pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) above, the Incentive Stock Option shall lapse, unless it is previously exercised, on the earlier of (i) the scheduled termination date of the Option; or (ii) 12 months after the date of the Participant's termination of employment on account of disability or death. Upon the Participant's disability or death, any Incentive Stock Options exercisable at the Participant's disability or death may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or representatives, by the person or persons entitled to do so pursuant to the Participant's last will and testament, or, if the Participant fails to make testamentary disposition of such Incentive Stock Option or dies intestate, by the person or persons entitled to receive the Incentive Stock Option pursuant to the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
For purposes of this , the term "disability" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Section 7.2
          (d) . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time an Award is made) of all shares of Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in any calendar year
Individual Dollar Limitation
 
may not exceed $100,000.00 or such other limitation as imposed by Section 422(d) of the Code, or any successor provision. To the extent that Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in excess of such limitation, the excess shall be considered Non-Qualified Stock Options.
          (e) . An Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any individual who, at the date of grant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of Stock of the Company only if such Option is granted at a price that is not less than 110% of Fair Market Value on the date of grant and the Option is exercisable for no more than five years from the date of grant.
Ten Percent Owners
          (f) . No Award of an Incentive Stock Option may be made pursuant to this Plan after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.
Expiration of Incentive Stock Options
          (g) . Except as provided in and in , during a Participant's lifetime, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Participant.
Right to Exercise
Section 7.2(c)(3)
Section 12.5
     8.1 . The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GRANT OF SARs
          (a) . Upon the exercise of a SAR, the Participant to whom it is granted has the right to receive the excess, if any, of:
Right to Payment
               (1) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise; over
               (2) the base value of the SAR as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant.
          (b) . All SAR grants will be evidenced by an Award Agreement. The terms, methods of exercise, methods of settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any SAR will be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award and as set forth in the Award Agreement; provided that the form of consideration payable in settlement of a SAR shall be Stock or cash as specified in the Award Agreement; and provided, further, that the term of any SAR granted under the Plan shall not exceed ten years.
Other Terms
 
     9.1 . The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee. All Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by a written Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK
     9.2 . Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, pursuant to such circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter.
ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS
     9.3 . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock that is at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide in any Restricted Stock Award Agreement that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock.
FORFEITURE
     9.4 . Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, and the Company may, in its discretion, retain physical possession of the certificate until such time as all applicable restrictions lapse.
CERTIFICATES FOR RESTRICTED STOCK
     10.1 . The Committee also is authorized to grant the following types of Awards to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee and as may be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement:
OTHER TYPES OF AWARDS IN GENERAL
          (a) . Performance Share Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive a specified number of shares of Stock depending on the satisfaction of any one or more of the Performance Criteria or any other specific performance criteria determined to be appropriate by the Committee. Performance may be measured on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Committee.
Performance Share Awards
 
          (b) . Performance Share Unit Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive a specified number of shares of Stock or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value (determined as of a specified date) of a specified number of shares of Stock depending on the satisfaction of any one or more of the Performance Criteria or any other specific performance criteria determined to be appropriate by the Committee. Performance may be measured on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Committee. The Performance Share Units shall be settled in Stock or cash as specified in the Award Agreement.
Performance Share Unit Awards
          (c) . Restricted Stock Unit Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive a specified number of shares of Stock, or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value (determined as of a specified date) of a specified number of shares of Stock, subject to any vesting or other restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, pursuant to such circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide in any Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units. The Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Stock or cash as specified in the Award Agreement.
Restricted Stock Unit Awards
          (d) . Performance Cash Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive an amount of cash depending on the satisfaction of any one or more of the Performance Criteria or other specific criteria determined to be appropriate by the Committee. Performance may be measured on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Committee.
Performance Cash Awards
          (e) . Dividend Equivalent Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive a payment, with or without interest, based on the dividends declared on the shares of Stock that are subject to any Award, to be credited as of dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award is exercised, vests or expires, as determined by the Committee. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional shares of Stock by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents will not be granted with respect to Options or SARs.
Dividend Equivalent Awards
          (f) . Stock Grant Awards will grant the Participant the right to receive (or purchase at such price as determined by the Committee) shares of Stock free of any vesting restrictions. Any purchase price for a Stock Grant Award shall be payable in cash or other form of consideration acceptable to
Stock Grant Awards
 
the Committee. A Stock Grant Award may be granted or sold as described in the preceding sentence in respect of past services or other valid consideration, or in lieu of any cash compensation due to such Participant.
     10.2 . Some of the Awards that may be granted pursuant to the Plan (including, but not necessarily limited to, Performance Share Awards, Performance Share Unit Awards, Performance Cash Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards) may be considered to be "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code. If an Award is subject to Section 409A, the Award Agreement and this Plan are intended to comply fully with and meet all of the requirements of Section 409A and the Award Agreement shall include such provisions as may be necessary to assure compliance with Section 409A. An Award subject to Section 409A also shall be administered in good faith compliance with the provisions of Section 409A as well as applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury. To the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any Award that is subject to Section 409A may be modified, replaced or terminated in the discretion of the Committee. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any Award is or may become subject to Section 409A, the Company may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the related Award Agreements, without the consent of the Participant, or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effective dates), or take any other action that the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to either comply with Section 409A or to exclude or exempt the Plan or any Award from the requirements of Section 409A.
COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A
     11.1 . The purpose of this is to enable the Committee, in the exercise of its discretion, to qualify some or all of the Awards granted pursuant to as "performance-based compensation" pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee has complete discretion concerning whether a particular Award should be qualified as "performance-based compensation." If the Committee concludes that a particular Award should not be qualified as "performance-based compensation," the Committee may grant the Award without satisfying the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. If the Committee, in its discretion, decides that a particular Award to a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation," the Committee will grant a Performance-Based Award to the Covered Employee and the provisions of this then shall control over any contrary provision contained in .
PURPOSE
Article 11
Articles 9 and 10
Article 11
Articles 9 or 10
     11.2 . This shall apply only to those Covered Employees selected by the Committee to receive Performance-Based Awards. The designation of a Covered Employee as a Participant for a Performance Period shall not in any manner entitle the Participant to receive an Award for the period. Moreover, designation of a Covered Employee as a Participant for a particular Performance Period
APPLICABILITY
Article 11
 
shall not require designation of such Covered Employee as a Participant in any subsequent Performance Period and designation of one Covered Employee as a Participant shall not require designation of any other Covered Employees as a Participant in such period or in any other period.
     11.3 . With regard to a particular Performance Period, the Committee shall have full discretion to select the length of such Performance Period, the type of Performance-Based Awards to be issued, the kind and/or level of the Performance Goal, and whether the Performance Goal is to apply to the Company, a Subsidiary or any division or business unit thereof.
DISCRETION OF COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO PERFORMANCE AWARDS
     11.4 . At the time that a Performance-Based Award is first issued, the Committee, in the Award Agreement or in another written document, shall specify whether performance will be evaluated including or excluding the effect of any of the following events that occur during the Performance Period:
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION; ADJUSTMENT OF GOALS
          (a) Judgments entered or settlements reached in litigation;
          (b) The write down of assets;
          (c) The impact of any reorganization or restructuring;
          (d) The impact of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, regulatory actions or other laws affecting reported results;
          (e) Extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders or Annual Report on Form 10-K, as the case may be, for the applicable year;
          (f) The impact of any mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs or other divestitures; and
          (g) Foreign exchange gains and losses.
The inclusion or exclusion of these items shall be expressed in a form that satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee, in its discretion, also may, within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, adjust or modify the calculation of Performance Goals for such Performance Period in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants (i) in the event of, or in anticipation of, any unusual or extraordinary corporate item, transaction, event, or development, or (ii) in recognition of, or in anticipation of, any other unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company, or the financial statements of the Company, or in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in applicable laws, regulations, accounting principles, or business conditions.
 
     11.5 . Unless otherwise provided in the relevant Award Agreement, a Participant must be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on the day a Performance-Based Award for such Performance Period is paid to the Participant. Furthermore, a Participant shall be eligible to receive payment pursuant to a Performance-Based Award for a Performance Period only if the Performance Goals for such period are achieved. In determining the actual size of an individual Performance-Based Award, the Committee may reduce or eliminate the amount of the Performance-Based Award earned for the Performance Period, if in its sole and absolute discretion, such reduction or elimination is appropriate.
PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS
     11.6 . The maximum Performance-Based Award (other than a Performance Cash Award) payable to any one Participant pursuant to the Plan for a Performance Period is 500,000 shares of Stock or the equivalent cash value. The maximum Performance Cash Award payable to any one Participant for any Performance Period is $5,000,000.
MAXIMUM AWARD PAYABLE
     12.1 . Awards granted pursuant to the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with, any other Award granted pursuant to the Plan. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards.
STAND-ALONE AND TANDEM AWARDS
     12.2 . The term of each Award shall be for the period determined by the Committee, provided that in no event shall the term of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right exceed a period of ten years from the date of its grant.
TERM OF AWARD
     12.3 . Awards under the Plan shall be evidenced by Award Agreements that set forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each Award, including, but not limited to, the term of the Award, the provisions applicable in the event the Participant's employment or service terminates and the Company's authority to unilaterally or bilaterally amend, modify, suspend, cancel or rescind an Award.
AWARD AGREEMENT
     12.4 . Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable law or Award Agreement, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or a Subsidiary on the grant, exercise or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee determines at or after the time of grant, including, without limitation, cash, promissory note, Stock held for more than six months, other Awards, or other property, or any combination, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case determined in accordance with rules adopted by, and at the discretion of, the Committee.
FORM OF PAYMENT FOR AWARDS
 
     12.5
LIMITS ON TRANSFER
.
          (a) . Except as provided in or , no right or interest of a Participant in any Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to, or in favor of, any party other than the Company or a Subsidiary, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or a Subsidiary. Except as provided in or , and except as otherwise provided by the Committee, no Award shall be assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
General
Section 12.5(b)
Section 12.6
Section 12.5(b)
Section 12.6
          (b) . The Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to grant (or to sanction by way of amendment to an existing Award) Awards which may be transferred by the Participant during his or her lifetime to any Family Member (as defined below). A transfer of an Award pursuant hereto may only be effected by the Company at the written request of the Participant. In the event an Award is transferred as contemplated herein, such transferred Award may not be subsequently transferred by the transferee (other than another transfer meeting the conditions herein) except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. A transferred Award shall continue to be governed by and subject to the terms and limitations of the Plan and relevant Award Agreement, and the transferee shall be entitled to the same rights as the Participant, as if the transfer had not taken place. For purposes of this , the term "Family Member" means a Participant's spouse and any parent, stepparent, grandparent, child, stepchild, or grandchild, including adoptive relationships or a trust or any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) have more than 50% of the beneficial interest.
Transfers to Family Members
Section 12.5(b)
     12.6 . Notwithstanding , a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death, and, in accordance with , upon the Participant's disability. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights pursuant to the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Agreement applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Agreement otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If the Participant is married and resides in a community property state, a designation of a person other than the Participant's spouse as his beneficiary with respect to more than 50% of the Participant's interest in the Award shall not be effective without the prior written consent of the Participant's spouse. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the person entitled thereto pursuant to the Participant's will or the laws of descent and distribution. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is provided to the Committee.
BENEFICIARIES
Section 12.5
Section 7.2(c)(3)
     12.7 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificates
STOCK CERTIFICATES
 
evidencing shares of Stock pursuant to the exercise of any Award, unless and until the Board has determined, with advice of counsel, that the issuance and delivery of such certificates is in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authorities and, if applicable, the requirements of any exchange or quotation system on which the shares of Stock are listed, quoted or traded. All Stock certificates delivered pursuant to the Plan are subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with Federal, state, or foreign jurisdiction, securities or other laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock. In addition to the terms and conditions provided herein, the Board may require that a Participant make such reasonable covenants, agreements, and representations as the Board, in its discretion, deems advisable in order to comply with any such laws, regulations, or requirements.
     12.8 . If a Change of Control occurs and Awards are converted, assumed, or replaced by a successor, the Committee shall have the discretion to cause all outstanding Awards to become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding Awards to lapse prior to the Change of Control. If a Change of Control occurs and Awards are not converted, assumed, or replaced by a successor, all outstanding Awards shall automatically become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding Awards shall lapse. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in ), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options. Upon, or in anticipation of, such an event, the Committee may cause every Award outstanding hereunder to terminate at a specific time in the future and shall give each Participant the right to exercise Awards during a period of time as the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine.
ACCELERATION UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL
Section 7.2(d
     12.9 . The Award Agreement for any Award other than an Option or Restricted Stock Award may allow the Participant to defer receipt of any compensation attributable to the Award pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan of 2005. Any such Award Agreement shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
DEFERRAL PURSUANT TO DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
     13.1 . If there shall occur any merger, consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the Stock, then the Committee shall, in the manner and to the extent that it deems appropriate and equitable to the Participants and consistent with the terms of this Plan, cause a proportionate adjustment to be made in (i) the maximum numbers and kind of shares provided in hereof, (ii) the maximum numbers and kind
ADJUSTMENTS
Section 5.1
 
of shares set forth in and hereof and any other similar numeric limit expressed in the Plan, (iii) the number and kind of shares of Stock, share units, or other rights subject to the then-outstanding Awards, (iv) the price for each share or unit or other right subject to then outstanding Awards without change in the aggregate purchase price or value as to which such Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions, (v) the performance targets or goals appropriate to any outstanding Performance-Based Awards (subject to such limitations as appropriate for Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) of the Code) or (vi) any other terms of an Award that are affected by the event. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding Awards under the Plan such alternative consideration (including cash) as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable under the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all Awards so replaced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Section 5.4
Section 11.6
     13.2 . Except as expressly provided in the Plan, no Participant shall have any rights by reason of any merger, consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the Stock. Except as expressly provided in the Plan, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Stock subject to an Award or the exercise price of any Award.
NO OTHER RIGHTS
     14.1 . With the approval of the Board, at any time and from time to time, the Committee may terminate, amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that (a) to the extent necessary to comply with any applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange rule, the Company shall obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required, (b) shareholder approval is required for any amendment to the Plan that (i) increases the number of shares available under the Plan (other than any adjustment as provided by ), (ii) permits the Committee to grant Options with an exercise price that is below Fair Market Value on the date of grant, (iii) permits the Committee to extend the exercise period for an Option beyond ten years from the date of grant, or (iv) amends Section 7.1(e) to permit the Committee to reprice previously granted Options, and (c) no such action shall be taken that would cause all or part of the payment under any Award to be subject to the additional tax under Section 409A of the Code. Additional rules relating to amendments to the Plan or any Award Agreement to assure compliance with Section 409A of the Code are set forth in .
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION
Article 13
Section 10.2
 
     14.2 . Except as otherwise provided in or pursuant to , no termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted pursuant to the Plan without the prior written consent of the Participant.
AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED
Section 10.2
Section 12.3
     15.1 . No Participant, employee, or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award pursuant to the Plan, and neither the Company nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants, employees, and other persons uniformly.
NO RIGHTS TO AWARDS
     15.2 . No Award gives the Participant any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until shares of Stock are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award.
NO SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS
     15.3 . The Company or any Subsidiary shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any taxable event concerning a Participant arising as a result of this Plan. With the Committee's consent as expressed in an Award Agreement or in any policy adopted by the Committee, a Participant may elect to (a) have the Company withhold from those shares of Stock that would otherwise be received upon the exercise of any Option, a number of shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory amount necessary to satisfy the Company's applicable federal, state, local or foreign income and employment tax withholding obligations with respect to such Participant, or (b) tender previously-owned shares of Stock held by the Participant for six months or longer to satisfy the Company's applicable federal, state, local, or foreign income and employment tax withholding obligations with respect to the Participant.
WITHHOLDING
     15.4 . Nothing in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment or services at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Subsidiary.
NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICES
     15.5 . The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Subsidiary.
UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS
     15.6 . No payment pursuant to the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits pursuant to any pension,
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS
 
retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or other benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary, except as otherwise provided in such plan.
     15.7 . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.
EXPENSES
     15.8 . The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and, in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
TITLES AND HEADINGS
     15.9 . No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, in the Award Agreement or pursuant to any policy adopted by the Committee whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down as appropriate.
FRACTIONAL SHARES
     15.10 . With respect to any person who is, on the relevant date, obligated to file reports pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, transactions pursuant to this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors pursuant to the Exchange Act. To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be void to the extent permitted by law and voidable as deemed advisable by the Committee.
SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE
     15.11 . The obligation of the Company to make payment of awards in Stock or otherwise shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by government agencies as may be required. The Company shall be under no obligation to register pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, any of the shares of Stock paid pursuant to the Plan. If the shares paid pursuant to the Plan may in certain circumstances be exempt from registration pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company may restrict the transfer of such shares in such manner as it deems advisable to ensure the availability of any such exemption.
GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS
     15.12 . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Arizona.
GOVERNING LAW

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
General
     As we describe in the CDA beginning on page 16 of this proxy statement, equity-based long-term compensation is an important element of our compensation program. In the past few years, we issued long-term equity incentive awards under the 2002 Plan. In early 2007, the Board of Directors approved the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan"), subject to shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual Meeting. If shareholder approval is obtained, the 2007 Plan will become effective on the date approved by shareholders (the "Effective Date").
     The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units, performance cash awards, dividend equivalents and stock to eligible individuals. The 2007 Plan also allows for awards that qualify as performance-based pay. Performance-based pay awards are not subject to the $1,000,000 limitation on deductible compensation pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code").
     The Board believes that the 2007 Plan will promote the success, and enhance the value, of the Company by linking the personal interests of participants to those of Company shareholders. The Board also believes that the 2007 Plan will strengthen the Company's ability to motivate, attract, and retain employees upon whom the successful operation of the Company is largely dependent.
     A summary of the 2007 Plan's principal provisions is set forth below. The summary is qualified by reference to the full text of the 2007 Plan, which is attached as Appendix B.
     
Administration
     The Committee, consisting of at least two directors each of whom qualifies as a "non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) of the Exchange Act, and an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Code, has the exclusive authority to administer the Plan. The Committee has the power to determine eligibility to receive an award, the amount and type of award and its terms and conditions.
     
Eligibility
     Persons eligible to participate in the 2007 Plan include present and future employees and Board members of, and consultants and advisors to, the Company and its subsidiaries, as determined by the Committee (or in the case of Board members, the Board). Awards made to a prospective member of the Board, employee, officer, consultant or advisor must specifically provide that no portion of the award will vest, become exercisable or be issued prior to the date on which the individual begins providing services to the Company or its subsidiaries.
     
Limitation on Awards and Shares Available
     The 2007 Plan authorizes the issuance of up to 8,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock, plus additional shares that become available for issuance under the Prior Plans as described below. The amount of stock reserved for grant pursuant to the 2007 Plan is subject to adjustment in the event of any merger, consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the stock. Shares of stock issued in connection with awards other than options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") will be counted against the shares available for grant under the 2007 Plan as two shares for every one share issued in connection with the award. Shares of stock issued in connection with the exercise of an option or SAR will be counted against the shares of stock available for grant as one share.
 
     Shares of stock that are potentially deliverable under any award that expires or is cancelled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise terminated without a delivery of such shares will not be counted against the limit of shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan and will again be available for grant under the 2007 Plan. In addition, shares of stock that have been issued in connection with any award (e.g., restricted stock) that is cancelled, forfeited, or settled in cash, such that those shares are returned to the Company, will again be available for grant under the 2007 Plan.
     If the 2007 Plan is approved, we will not issue any additional shares or awards under either the 2002 Plan, discussed under the heading "What are the elements of the Company's compensation?  Long-Term Incentives" in the CDA on page 20 of this proxy statement, or the Directors Equity Plan, discussed under the heading "Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved By Security Holders" on page 43 of this proxy statement. In the discussion below, we refer to the 2002 Plan and the Directors Equity Plan as the "Prior Plans." Under the 2007 Plan, any shares of stock that are potentially deliverable under any award granted under a Prior Plan will be added to the number of shares of stock available for grant under the 2007 Plan if the award expires or is cancelled or terminated without a delivery of such shares to the participant. In addition, any shares of stock that have been issued in connection with any award granted under a Prior Plan (e.g., restricted stock) will be added to the number of shares available for grant under the 2007 Plan if the award is cancelled, forfeited, or terminated such that those shares are returned to the Company.
     The payment of dividend equivalents in conjunction with any outstanding award under the 2007 Plan will not be counted against the shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan if the dividend equivalents are paid in cash. The exercise of a stock-settled SAR or net-cashless exercise of an option (or a portion thereof) will reduce the number of shares of stock available for issuance under the 2007 Plan by the entire number of shares of stock subject to that SAR or option (or applicable portion thereof), even though a smaller number of shares of stock will be issued upon such an exercise. Also, shares of stock tendered to pay the exercise price of an option or tendered or withheld to satisfy a tax withholding obligation arising in connection with an award will not become available for grant or sale under the 2007 Plan. The Committee may adopt such other reasonable rules and procedures as it deems to be appropriate for purposes of determining the number of shares of stock that are available for awards under the 2007 Plan.
     No more than 500,000 shares of stock may be granted to any one participant during a calendar year. The maximum performance-based award (other than a performance cash award) payable to any one participant during a performance period is 500,000 shares of stock or the cash equivalent. The maximum performance cash award payable to any one participant for any performance period is $5,000,000. As of April 9, 2007, the stock's closing price on New York Stock Exchange was $49.61 per share.
     
Awards
     The following types of incentive awards may be granted under the 2007 Plan: incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units, cash, dividend equivalents, and stock.
     . Incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options may be granted under the 2007 Plan. Incentive stock options will only be granted to participants who are employees. The exercise price of all stock options will be at least 100% of the fair market value of the stock on the date that the option is granted. Stock options may be exercised as determined by the Committee provided that the term of any option granted under the 2007 Plan shall not exceed ten years. The Committee will determine the methods by which the exercise price of an option may be paid and the methods by which shares of stock may be delivered to participants. The Committee may not reprice options previously granted under the 2007 Plan.
Stock options
     The Committee may grant SARs under the 2007 Plan. A SAR entitles the participant to receive the appreciation on one share of stock. Appreciation is calculated as the excess of (i) the fair market value on the date of exercise over (ii) the base value of the SAR as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the fair market value on the date of grant. The terms and conditions of any SAR will be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant.
Stock appreciation rights
.
 
     . The Committee may grant restricted stock under the 2007 Plan. A restricted stock award gives the participant the right to receive a specified number of shares of stock at a price determined by the Committee (including zero). Restrictions may limit transferability and subject the stock to substantial risk of forfeiture until specific conditions or goals are met. During the restriction period, participants holding shares of restricted stock may, if permitted by the Committee, have full voting and dividend rights with respect to such shares. The restrictions will lapse in accordance with a schedule or other conditions as determined by the Committee. As a general rule, if a participant terminates employment when the stock is subject to restrictions, the participant forfeits the unvested restricted stock. The Committee may, in its discretion, waive the restrictions in whole or in part.
Restricted stock
     . The Committee may grant restricted stock units under the 2007 Plan. A restricted stock unit award gives the participant the right to receive stock, or a cash payment equal to the fair market value of the stock, subject to any vesting or other restrictions the Committee deems appropriate. The restrictions will lapse in accordance with a schedule or other conditions as determined by the Committee. As a general rule, if a participant terminates employment when the restricted stock units are subject to restrictions, the participant forfeits the unvested restricted stock units. The Committee may, in its discretion, waive the restrictions in whole or in part.
Restricted stock units
     . The Committee may grant performance share awards under the 2007 Plan. A performance share award gives the participant the right to receive stock if certain performance criteria or goals are satisfied. Performance may be measured on a specific date or dates or over any period or periods as determined by the Committee.
Performance share awards
     The Committee may grant performance share units under the 2007 Plan. A performance share unit award gives the participant the right to receive stock or cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of the stock if certain performance criteria or goals are satisfied. Performance may be measured on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods as determined by the Committee.
Performance share units
.
     . The Committee may grant dividend equivalents under the Plan. A dividend equivalent award gives the participant the right to receive a payment when a dividend is declared on the participant's stock award. Dividend equivalents are credited on a date that falls between the date the award is granted and the date the award is exercised, vests or expires. The Committee will specify when the dividend equivalents will be converted to cash or stock, the formula for conversion and any restrictions or limitations on the conversion. Dividend equivalents will not be granted with respect to options or SARs.
Dividend equivalents
     . The Committee may grant stock awards under the 2007 Plan. A stock grant award gives the participant the right to receive, or the right to purchase at a predetermined price, shares of stock free from vesting restrictions. A stock grant award may be granted or sold as consideration for past services, other consideration or in lieu of cash compensation due to any participant.
Stock grants
     . The Committee may grant performance cash awards under the 2007 Plan. A performance cash award gives the participant the right to receive a cash payment if certain performance criteria or goals are satisfied. Performance may be measured on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Committee.
Performance cash
     . Under the 2007 Plan, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units, dividend equivalents, stock grants and performance cash awards may be designated as performance-based awards. Performance-based awards are subject to additional requirements, some of which are described below, which are required in order to be treated as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. The deductibility of these awards is preserved for federal income tax purposes. Because Section 162(m) of the Code only applies to "covered employees," as defined in Section 162(m), only covered employees will receive awards that will be classified as performance-based awards.
Performance-based awards
     Pre-established performance criteria must be met before a participant is eligible to receive payment for a performance-based award. Pre-established performance criteria must be based on one or more of the following: EBITDA; EBIT; costs; operating income; net income; cash flow; operating cash flow; net cash flow; fuel cost per million BTU; costs per kilowatt hour; retained earnings; budget achievement; return on equity; return on assets; return on capital employed; return on invested capital; cash available to Company from a subsidiary or subsidiaries;
 
expense spending; O&M expense; O&M or capital per kilowatt hour; gross margin; net margin; market capitalization; customer satisfaction; revenues; financial return ratios; market share; shareholder return and/or value (including but not limited to total shareholder return); operating profits (including earnings before or after income taxes, depreciation and amortization); net profits; earnings per share; earnings per share growth; profit returns and margins; stock price; working capital; business trends; production cost; project milestones; capacity utilization; quality; economic value added; plant and equipment performance; operating efficiency; diversity; debt; dividends; bond ratings; corporate governance; and health and safety (including environmental health and safety). Performance goals may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division, business unit, plant or an individual. The Committee has discretion to select the length of the performance period, the type of performance-based awards and the criteria or goals used to measure the performance.
     The performance criteria and other related aspects of the 2007 Plan will be subject to shareholder approval again in 2012 if (as is currently the case) shareholder approval is then required to maintain the tax-deductible nature of performance-based compensation under the 2007 Plan.
     
Amendment and Termination
     The Committee, with the Board's approval, may terminate, amend, or modify the 2007 Plan at any time, except where shareholder approval for an amendment is required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule. As a general rule, the Committee cannot terminate, amend or modify the 2007 Plan in a way that has a material adverse effect on any participant's outstanding award without the participant's consent.
     The 2007 Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. In no event may an award be granted under the 2007 Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Awards outstanding on the termination date will not be affected by the termination.
     
Federal Income Tax Consequences
     This is a summary of the principal federal income tax consequences of the 2007 Plan. State, local and foreign income taxes may also be applicable.
     With the exception of a stock grant, a participant will not recognize taxable income at the time of grant.
     Upon exercise of a nonqualified stock option, the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock, or upon the payment of SARs, restricted stock units, stock grants, performance shares, performance share units, performance cash, or dividend equivalents, the participant will recognize ordinary taxable income in an amount equal to the difference between the amount paid for the award, if any, and the fair market value of the stock or amount received on the date of exercise, lapse of restriction or payment. The Company will be entitled to a concurrent deduction equal to the ordinary income recognized by the participant.
     A participant who is granted an incentive stock option will not recognize taxable income at the time of exercise. However, the excess of the stock's fair market value over the option price could be subject to the alternative minimum tax (assuming the stock received is not subject to a risk of forfeiture and is not transferable). If stock acquired upon exercise of an incentive stock option is held for a minimum of two years from the date of grant and one year from the date of exercise, the gain or loss (in an amount equal to the difference between the sales price and the exercise price) upon disposition of the stock will be treated as a long-term capital gain or loss, and the Company will not be entitled to any deduction. If the holding period requirements are not met, the incentive stock option will not meet the requirements of the Code and the tax consequences described for nonqualified stock options will apply.
     Congress recently enacted Section 409A of the Code, which dramatically changes the tax rules for deferred compensation arrangements. Among other things, Section 409A expands the definition of deferred compensation arrangements to include, for example, below market option grants, certain SARs, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units, performance cash and dividend equivalents (in some circumstances). Upon a violation of Section 409A, a participant must include in ordinary income all deferred compensation, pay interest from the date of the deferral and pay an additional 20% tax. The 2007 Plan prohibits the Committee from taking
 
any action with respect to the operation of the 2007 Plan that would violate Section 409A. Any award agreement subject to Section 409A will include provisions necessary for compliance as determined by the Committee. The Company intends that awards granted under the 2007 Plan will comply with the requirements of Section 409A and intends to administer and interpret the 2007 Plan in such a manner.
     
Change-in-Control
     If a change-in-control occurs and awards are converted, assumed, or replaced by a successor, the Committee may allow all outstanding awards to become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding awards to lapse prior to the change-in-control. If a change-in-control occurs and awards are not converted, assumed, or replaced by a successor, all outstanding awards will automatically become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding awards will lapse.
     
New Plan Benefits
     Benefits under the 2007 Plan will depend on the Committee's actions and the fair market value of common stock at various future dates. Consequently, it is not possible to determine the future benefits that will be received by 2007 Plan participants. On February 20, 2007, the Committee made certain grants of RSUs under the 2007 Plan conditional on approval of the 2007 Plan at the 2007 Annual Meeting. We describe the RSUs that were conditionally granted in the CDA under the heading "What are the elements of the Company's compensation program?  Long-Term Incentives  Retention Units and RSUs" on page 21 of this proxy statement. We made a total of 134,917 conditional grants of RSUs and of those grants, the following grants were made to the Named Executive Officers: Mr. Post  22,500; Mr. Davis  10,000; Mr. Brandt  10,000; and Mr. Flores  3,543.


