FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20071220212328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
Line Extension Schedule
     As previously reported, as part of the Arizona Corporation Commission's ("ACC") Order in Arizona Public Service Company's ("APS") most recent general retail rate case, the ACC required APS to file a revised line extension schedule for ACC approval that would eliminate certain construction allowances for new or expanded service and permit APS to collect, on a current basis, costs related to line extensions. APS filed a proposed schedule providing, among other things, that payments received for line extensions be accounted for as non-refundable electric revenues. The ACC staff has recommended approval of the proposed amendments to APS' line extension schedule, except the ACC staff proposes that these payments be accounted for as contributions in aid of construction, which would result in positive cash flow that would offset capital expenditures, but without any revenue impact when the payments are made. See "APS General Rate Case and Power Supply Adjustor" in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation/APS Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007.
     On December 20, 2007, APS filed additional information with the ACC in response to requests from ACC Commissioners directed to all of the parties to the proceeding. In its filing, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1, APS provided additional support for its position that APS should treat line extension payments as non-refundable electric revenues, stating that doing so would, among other things, help shield APS customers against both the size and frequency of future general base rate increases and strengthen APS' financial condition. Based upon a variety of assumptions, APS estimated in its filing that its proposal, if approved before the end of 2007, could increase APS pretax revenues by approximately $50 million in 2008, $117 million in 2009, and between $159 million to $191 million in 2010. The appropriate procedure for considering this matter has not yet been determined by the ACC. APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the estimated amounts of increased revenues that APS could recognize if the ACC adopts APS' line extension proposal. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause actual revenue amounts to differ materially from estimated revenue amounts, including the timing of any ACC approval of APS' proposal; customer growth; housing market conditions; and the extent to which new connections are "grandfathered."
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Thomas L. Mumaw Senior Attorney (602) 250-2052 Direct Line
Chairman Mike Gleason Commissioner William Mundell Commissioner Jeff Hatch-Miller Commissioner Kristin K. Mayes Commissioner Gary Pierce ARIZONA CORPORATION COMMISSION 1200 West Washington Phoenix, Arizona 85007
Dear Commissioners:
     Arizona Public Service Company ("APS" or "Company") is pleased to respond to the letters received in this docket from Commissioners Mayes and Pierce related to the Company's pending request to account for fees received under its revised Schedule 3 as Miscellaneous Service Revenues. As the Commission is aware, the Company's requested revenue treatment is the sole difference between the Schedule 3 proposed by APS on October 24, 2007 (in response to the directive contained in Decision No. 69663) and that recommended by Commission Staff in its Memorandum and Proposed Order of November 2, 2007. Importantly, while line extension applicants will pay the amount for service extension under both versions of Schedule 3, treating those fees as revenue compared to contributions-in-aid of construction ("CIAC") has significant benefits to the Company and its customers in both the immediate future and in the long runbenefits not available if the Commission orders CIAC treatment of these proceeds.
1
same
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 2
     The Company's proposed accounting treatment for Schedule 3 fees will benefit the Company's customers in at least four important ways:
     There is thus little question that APS's proposed revenue treatment better serves the clear intent of Decision No. 69663 to use Schedule 3 fees to "shift the burden of rising distribution infrastructure costs away from the current customer base to growth" far better than does CIAC treatment. [Decision No. 69663 at 97.] APS provided an analysis of these issues in its October 24 filing and has also given additional detailed analyses to Staff and the Residential Utility Consumer Office ("RUCO"). Below, the Company will expand upon these points in response to the following requests made in the correspondence from Commissioners Mayes and Pierce.
     APS would note initially that this letter, in addition to the Company's other submissions on this matter, collectively provide a thorough analysis of APS's proposal for treating the Schedule 3 proceeds as revenue. In that regard, this letter should be read in conjunction with the information that APS provided in the October 24 filing and the APS Exceptions dated November 19, 2007. That being said, APS will take this opportunity to address some potential concerns that may be raised by Staff or other parties.
     First, there is no accounting or other rule that would prevent the Commission from authorizing the Company's proposed revenue treatment in this docket. APS rates were just recently established by Decision No. 69663 after a long and exhaustive general rate case proceedinga proceeding that fully complied with any conceivably arguable Arizona procedural requirement, including an unequivocal and express finding of fair value rate base. That Decision explicitly directed changes to Schedule 3 that significantly increased the fees charged by APS to new electric service applicants. APS is not seeking to change those results in even the slightest degree. To the contrary, its proposed revenue treatment of those fees meets the Commission's intent to shift the burden of rising costs to growth far
 
December 20, 2007 Page 3
better than Staff's proposed treatment. Thus, APS seeks increase in Schedule 3 or any other charges that are in excess of those already established by Decision No. 69663.
no
     While some have questioned whether this docket is the appropriate venue to resolve the issue of what accounting treatment should be afforded Schedule 3 fees, the Company believes that this is the right proceeding in which to do so. First, as discussed above, the amount of proceeds that Schedule 3 will generate does not change whether treated as CIAC or revenue, and the Commission expressly considered and approved changes to Schedule 3 in Decision No. 69663. Second, far from requiring one type of accounting treatment or another, Decision No. 69663 is silent on the issue, leaving open the question of whether those funds should be characterized as CIAC, revenue, or some combination of the two. But while the required accounting treatment was left unclear, the Commission was not ambiguous about its with respect to Schedule 3 funds, which Decision No. 69663 makes plain was to "shift the burden of rising distribution infrastructure costs away from the current customer base to growth." [Decision No. 69663 at 97.] As demonstrated in detail herein, there is no question that the Company's proposed revenue treatment achieves that intent far better than the alternative CIAC treatment, both immediately and in the long run. Moreover, as described below, no matter whether Schedule 3 fees are characterized as CIAC or revenue, the Company will not earn the allowed return on equity that was exhaustively litigated and finally approved in the recent APS rate case.
precisely
2
intent
     The Company's analysis also highlights exactly why prompt determination of this issue in this proceeding is critical to both customers and the Company. The distinction in treating Schedule 3 fees as revenue versus CIAC is one that has important impacts on both the Company's FFO/Debt ratio and its earnings. As shown in the attached Exhibit A, under the CIAC approach, the Company's FFO/Debt ratio (a calculation discussed extensively during the rate case and other APS proceedings) hovers at 18.1% in 2008dangerously close to the 18% FFO/Debt threshold for non-investment gradeand will fall to 17% in 2009 and 16.4% in 2010 respectively absent additional base rate relief. On the other hand, if treated as revenue, the level of Schedule 3 fees ordered in Decision No. 69663 will improve the Company's financial health and should preserve (for the time being) the Company's financial metrics within the BBB investment grade (though on the low end of the 18% to 28% scale).
     The Company's jurisdictional returns on equity ("ROE") also suffer under the CIAC approach compared to the Company's revenue proposal. As Exhibit A also shows, under the CIAC approach, absent rate relief, the Company's ROE rests at just 7.3% in 2008 and falls to less than 6% or under by 2010. The revenue treatment increases the Company's earnings, allowing APS to earn a ROE in the neighborhood of 8-9% between 2008 and 2010 depending on the state of the housing market, but still well below the 10.75% ROE found reasonable in Decision No. 69663. In fact, the Company's projected jurisdictional ROEs under both options are below the ROE recommendation of every party to the rate case having such a recommendation. This analysis fully takes into account the impact of the income tax liability caused by the Schedule 3 revenue treatment.
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 4
     Given the Company's deteriorating financial condition, it is thus clear that, without prompt resolution of this matter in favor of the revenue approach, APS will have no choice but to file another rate case. Delaying resolution of this APS-specific issue to the generic hook-up fee docket (as RUCO has suggested) would be inappropriate and would negate the instant benefit that customers will see if the Commission takes this opportunity to mitigate the level of rate increases going forward.
In fact, the benefit to customers from
either
the revenue or CIAC treatment of Schedule 3 fees is
reduced
every day that approval of Schedule 3 is delayed.
     In short, the Company's proposal is entirely consistent with the Commission's stated intent for Schedule 3, produces no greater charges than what Decision No. 69663 would permit, and results in a jurisdictional ROE still significantly below the 10.75% ROE authorized in this docket. As explained below, these analyses suggest that customers will benefit from this treatment not just in the near term, but over a thirty year time horizon, using the same present value analysis routinely used in the Company's planning process.
     There is simply no question that APS's proposed revenue treatment renders significant benefits to both customers and APS compared to CIAC in both the short term and for many years to come. APS previously discussed the impact of its proposal (versus that of Staff) on APS earnings. But the proposed revenue treatment of Schedule 3 fees also improves the Company's credit metrics and, thus, its borrowing capacity. Attached as Exhibit B is an analysis of the relative impact of each proposal (revenue versus CIAC) on APS's FFO/Debt ratio and also the impact of changes in that ratio on the Company's ability to finance new utility infrastructure. Importantly, the income tax impact of increasing Schedule 3 fees (discussed at length during the proceedings in this docket) remains the same irrespective of the accounting treatment of those funds. Nevertheless, as Exhibit B clearly shows, the Company's financial condition and its ability to carry out its public service obligations are enhanced by revenue treatment in comparison to CIAC.
     Customers also benefit from the Company's proposal compared to CIAC, both in the near term and for decades to come. Attached as Exhibit C are both a 10 year and a 30 year analysis of these two options (the latter of which is the approximate average life of new distribution plant while
 
December 20, 2007 Page 5
the former captures over 100% of the present value impact on customers). The analysis is based on the following key assumptions:
3
     What are the conclusions that can be drawn from these analyses? First, revenue treatment is advantageous to APS customers during year of the 10 year analysis, producing a present value benefit of some $380 to $440 million, depending on the discount rate used and assuming Schedule 3 fees of $100 million annually. Second, although in the 30 year analysis there is eventually a "cross-over" point in which CIAC treatment becomes more advantageous on a subsequent year-to-year basis (that is, an individual year in which the benefits of the revenue treatment are surpassed by those of CIAC), that point is at least some 13 years from now and depends on the Company's rate of growth, rate of inflation, and how often base rates are reset. Moreover, there is still a relative (to CIAC) present value benefit of $250 to $300 million, assuming $100 million of annual Schedule 3 proceeds. And as noted above, if less conservative assumptions are used concerning the frequency of rate cases,
every
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 6
the length of regulatory lag, and the growth rate of Schedule 3 proceeds, that cross-over year would be pushed further out and the present value benefits to APS customers increased.
     With regard to new service applicants, both options have the same upfront payment impactthe customer will pay the same amount for a line extension irrespective of the Company's accounting treatment. It should therefore not matter to such an applicant how APS categorizes the amounts paid to APS under Schedule 3. But once a new applicant joins the ranks of APS customers, that customer will enjoy the base rate-mitigation benefits that the revenue treatment affords, and is thus positively affected by the Company's proposed revenue treatment while relatively disadvantaged by CIAC treatment.
4
     The negative impacts of CIAC are merely the converse of these positive benefits from revenue treatment. CIAC results in less of a contribution to revenue requirements from growth than does revenue, and CIAC results in deteriorated FFO/Debt with a resultant loss of financing capacity.
     Yes, Schedule 3 fees will be sufficient to mitigate the need for future rate relief, but only if they are characterized as revenue instead of CIAC. APS customers will not see that benefit if the proceeds are treated as CIAC. Whenever the next rate case is filed, it will be for substantially less money under the Company's revenue proposal because of the dollar for dollar reduction to revenue requirement, compared to the 12 cents to the dollar value of CIAC. The exact degree to which future rate increases will be mitigated depends on a number of factors, including the state of the housing market, the test year used in future rate cases, the rate of growth and inflation, and other factors previously discussed in this letter.
     As previously explained in Part B, above, although the year-over-year net benefit from the revenue approach is not perpetual, with growth, it lasts for . Present value benefits to APS customers from the APS proposal remain substantial under any viable set of assumptions for the next . Just as APS and other utilities routinely evaluate resource and investment options in terms of relative present value costs, that is also the appropriate way to examine this issue.
more than a decade
thirty years
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 7
     As shown by attached Exhibits A and D, assuming the Commission resolves this matter and approves the proposed transition plan by January 1, 2008, APS estimates that it will receive a total of $326 million in Schedule 3 fees over the next three years (using the "More Likely Scenario" for 2010). If the housing market recovers 100% by the end of 2009 and APS customer growth returns to pre-2007 levels by then, this could add another $32 million in Schedule 3 fees. How much new this produces for APS is the decision now before the Commission. Under the Company's proposal, both estimated revenues and proceeds would be as indicated by Exhibit D. Under the Staff recommendation, the new revenue to the Company would be even though new customers would pay the same amount under Schedule 3.
revenue
zero
     RUCO's suggestion that revenue treatment of Schedule 3 fees might require a corresponding decrease in the electric service rates already authorized by Decision No. 69663 is inappropriate. Not only would this suggestion prevent APS from deferring or moderating another APS rate case, it entirely ignores the expressed intent of the Commission's ordered Schedule 3 revisions. Decision No. 69663 fully authorizes the new base rates that the Company now charges existing customers the modified Schedule 3 proceeds charged to growth. Inherent in the stated intent of the Commission to use Schedule 3 funds to "shift the burden of rising distribution costs away from current customers to growth" is the understanding that the Company's necessarily are "rising" as growth continues and that the Schedule 3 proceeds should be used to shield existing customers from those rising costs. Reducing the Company's approved electric service rates to "make-up" for the Schedule 3 revenue ignores the fact that the Company's costs risen precisely as Decision No. 69663 contemplated and anticipated, and would result in even more dramatic under-earning of the Company's authorized ROE than what APS is experiencing now. RUCO's suggestion would also require the Commission to re-open the rate case in order to analyze exactly which tariffs, if any, should be reduced, and by what amounta result that nobody should want and that no one has requested.
both
and
costs
have
     Although APS strongly believes that its proposal results in a win-win situation for both customers and the Company, it acknowledges that alternative options may exist and is open to discussing other possibilities. For example, one alternative could be the imposition, where feasible, of standardized fees for extensions to each customer class (which fees would also be treated as revenue) rather than a variable fee calculated by the estimated requirements of each individual application. A uniform fee of this type would facilitate planning by future customers, ease Company and Staff administrative burdens, lessen any possible adverse competitive impact among similar businesses, and effectively focus on the overall Company revenue needs arising from growth rather than individual project costs.
5
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 8
     In considering alternative approaches, however, the Commission should bear in mind that the beneficial and mitigating rate impacts of the Company's proposal (including the potential delay or moderation of another base rate filing) can be accomplished only through the Commission's approval of revenue treatment at or near the amounts reflected in APS's proposal. For this reason, the Company does not believe that an alternative where Schedule 3 proceeds are not fully reflected as revenue, such as the alternative mentioned in Commissioner Pierce's letter of December 10, 2007, would be as beneficial for either customers or the Company as APS's proposal. In his letter, Commissioner Pierce posits a situation wherein APS accounts for Schedule 3 fees as revenue, but assigns them a zero cost of capitalin other words, that APS treat Schedule 3 fees as a form of interest-free financing. Doing so, however, has roughly the same limited benefit to customers as the proposed CIAC treatment, which would not further the aim, as expressed in the letter, to "maximize the value of [Schedule 3 dollars] to ratepayers." Moreover, a "zero cost of capital" proposal has detrimental impacts on the Company's financial condition, compared even to the CIAC treatment.
     To elaborate, when calculating APS's allowed rate of return, the Commission adds the Company's weighted cost of debt and weighted cost of equity to determine its weighted cost of capital. The weighted cost of capital is then multiplied to the Company's rate base in order to determine APS's required pre-tax operating income (the number that will ultimately be used to determine the Company's revenue requirement, on which rates are based). Under the "zero cost" alternative, the Company would add a third component to the weighted cost of capital calculation: the cost of debt, the cost of equity, and a "zero cost" of Schedule 3 fees. The effect of including that zero cost component is to lower the total weighted cost of capital, which lower amount would then be applied to the Company's entire rate base. Under this proposal, the Company's rate base is higher (because it includes Schedule 3 fees) but its weighted cost of capital is lower. However, this yields the same total revenue requirement as applying a higher weighted cost of capital to a lower rate basethe CIAC result. In other words, the Company's revenue requirement  before the Schedule 3 revenue reduction  is the same under both the zero cost of capital approach and the CIAC approach and thus suffers from the same drawback.
     For example, assume that the Company has a hypothetical rate base of $4,000, $100 of which is Schedule 3 fees, and a weighted cost of capital (assuming an even 50/50 debt to equity balance with a 9% cost of debt and 11% cost of equity) of 10% (4.5% weighted cost of debt plus 5.5% weighted cost of equity). Under the CIAC approach, the Schedule 3 fees would reduce rate base to $3,900. The required return on the Company's remaining rate base would thus be 10% times $3,900, or . Under the "zero cost" approach, the Schedule 3 fees remain in rate base, but the cost of capital would be adjusted to include the zero cost of Schedule 3 revenues, resulting in a lower weighted cost of
$390
 
December 20, 2007 Page 9
capital of just under 9.8%. This lower cost of capital, multiplied by the entire $4,000 rate base, produces a required return of roughly the same as if the Schedule 3 proceeds had been treated as CIAC to begin with.
6
$390
     Under APS's revenue proposal, Schedule 3 fees would offset dollar for dollar APS's revenue requirement. If APS were directed to take its proposed approach in addition to the zero cost of capital approach, it would offset from the already reduced revenue requirement (now at CIAC levels) the total amount of Schedule 3 fees. But general regulatory accounting principles would prevent APS from recognizing the full value of that revenue on its income statement and would require the Company to "write-off" as an unrecoverable loss the great majority of the revenue stream coming from Schedule 3 fees. In fact, for every $1 of Schedule 3 revenue collected, the Company could recognize only . By requiring the Company to allocate a set portion of its total revenue requirement to this significantly lower-value Schedule 3 revenue stream, the proposal prevents the Company from recovering the full amount of its legitimately incurred costs through its other ratesrates that would allow the Company to earn a full return on each dollar invested, and not just 30 cents to the dollar. APS is thus detrimentally affected twice by the zero cost proposal: first by requiring a reduction to a revenue requirement that has already been reduced to CIAC levels, and second by forcing a write-off of roughly two thirds of that revenue stream. This would clearly be an unfair result. APS would be financially better off under the CIAC approach, where the same level of revenue requirements could be allocated to rates that would allow the Company full recovery on its investment.
thirty cents
7
     While increasing the return above zero to any figure less than the weighted cost of capital (as calculated without regard to the Schedule 3 fees) would reduce the amount of the required write-off, it would not eliminate the need for it altogether. The only way to avoid that result would be to reduce the amount of that dollar's credit against APS revenue requirements to a level sufficient to avoid the write-off. This would be analogous to treating part of the dollar as revenue (for rate making purposes) and part as CIAC. Although mathematically possible, this would produce significantly less customer benefit than under the Company's proposal.
 
 
December 20, 2007 Page 10
     As APS understands it, the concern that this identified alternative is intended to address is that APS's revenue proposal may somehow result in a "double-payment" by customers for plant paid for from Schedule 3 fees. However, customers receive the full benefit of Schedule 3 fees being treated as revenue through the dollar-for-dollar reduction to APS's revenue requirement. Moreover, APS (and all other utilities) has always used revenue that it receives from rates to construct new infrastructure, and Schedule 3 revenues would be no different in this regard than revenues APS obtains from, say, its E-12 (residential) or E-32 (general service) rate schedules. Thus, the Company's Schedule 3 proposal does result in "customer-financed infrastructure" from new customers any more than does other plant paid for from money received from existing customers in the form of base rates. Rather, the "estimated cost of facilities" calculation is simply a proxy for determining the amount of the "revenue requirement" that a new customer must pay in order to be connected to the APS system, and should be treated the same way as general base rate revenues.
not
     APS hopes that it has been responsive to the Commissioners' inquiries and that this information will prove useful to the Commission in making this important policy decision. APS is also open to discussing these issues in greater depth at any hearing believed necessary by the Commission in this docket as part of the Company's compliance filing. The Company continues to believe, however, that a full traditional, evidentiary hearing is not necessary. In the end, the issue is a policy decision: Should Schedule 3 be used to shift the burden of rising infrastructure costs away from existing customers or not? If the Commission believes they shouldas the Order indicated it didthe Company's proposal undoubtedly presents the best mechanism to do so. Moreover, because prompt resolution of this policy matter is vital to the Company's ability to defer or reduce a future rate case asking and to maximize APS customer benefits, it is critical that any hearing be conducted on an expedited schedule and that this matter is resolved as quickly as possible.
     Please do not hesitate to contact me should you wish further analysis or have any questions.
TLM/ Attachments
 
Exhibit A 12/20/07
 
 
Exhibit B 12/20/07
     
$50 million of Schedule 3 Fees Accounted for as Revenues:
 
     
$50 million of Schedule 3 Fees Accounted for as CIAC:
 
 
Page 1
Exhibit C 12/20/07
 
 
(Per $1,000 of Schedule 3 Fees)
 
Line
(Per $1,000 of Schedule 3 Fees)
 
Exhibit D 12/20/2007
 
 
Exhibit E 12/20/07
Assumptions:
 


