FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20080225170422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     Donald E. Brandt has been elected the President and Chief Operating Officer of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West"), effective March 1, 2008. Mr. Brandt, who assumes the position of Chief Executive Officer of Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") on March 1, 2008 following the retirement of Jack E. Davis, will continue to serve as President of APS. See "Supplemental Item  Executive Officers of Pinnacle West" in Part I of the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 for information regarding Mr. Brandt's business experience during the past five years. Mr. Brandt's base salary was increased in February of 2008 to $750,000 in connection with these new positions.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


