FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20081222080208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
Table of Contents
Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") General Rate Case  Testimony
     As required by the procedural schedule in APS' general rate case pending before the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC"), on December 19, 2008, the ACC staff and other intervenors filed their initial written testimony with the ACC. APS is requesting a net rate increase of $278.2 million, which represents a base rate increase of $448.2 million less the reclassification of $170 million of fuel and purchased power revenues from the existing Power Supply Adjuster ("PSA") to base rates.
     The $278.2 million net rate increase consists of $264.3 million in non-fuel base rates (including $58.8 million for post test year rate base adjustments and a $79.3 million attrition adjustment to address erosion in APS' earnings and return on equity through 2010); $13.9 million for fuel and purchased power costs reflected in base rates (net of the reclassification of existing PSA revenues to base rates); and recovery of up to $53 million of such increases through the proposed impact fees. The request is based on a test year ended December 31, 2007; a rate base of $5.4 billion; a base fuel rate of $0.0388 per kilowatt-hour ("kWh") based on estimated 2010 prices (compared to the current base fuel rate of $0.0325 per kWh); and a weighted-average cost of capital of 8.86%, with a return on common equity of 11.5% and a capital structure of 46% long-term debt and 54% common equity. For additional information regarding APS' request, see "2008 General Rate Case" in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation/APS Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008.
     
ACC Staff Recommendation
     In its filed testimony, the ACC staff recommends a number of cost disallowances and test year adjustments that decrease APS' base rate request by $141.6 million. The principal components of the revenue increase recommended by the ACC staff are $155.1 million for non-fuel increases and $11.4 million for fuel and purchased power costs reflected in base rates (net of the reclassification of $140.1 million of existing PSA revenues to base rates).
     In its recommendations, the ACC staff also proposed, among other things:
Table of Contents
     The ACC staff also recommended that the ACC reject the following APS proposals:
     
Other Intervenors' Recommendations
     Other intervenors in the rate case include, among others, the Arizona Residential Utility Consumer Office ("RUCO"), an office established by the Arizona legislature to represent the interests of residential utility consumers before the ACC; and Arizonans for Electric Choice and Competition ("AECC"), a coalition that advocates on behalf of commercial and industrial utility customers. These other intervenors' testimony includes the following recommendations:
     
Procedural Schedule
     As required by the procedural schedule, the ACC staff and intervenors will file rate design testimony by January 9, 2009 and APS will file rebuttal testimony, which is due February 6, 2009. Hearings in the rate case are scheduled to begin on April 2, 2009. We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this rate case or the resulting levels of regulated revenues.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


