FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20080128170846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Election of Director
     On January 23, 2008, Sue Clark-Johnson was appointed as a Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company") and Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") director, effective February 1, 2008. Ms. Clark-Johnson currently serves as the President of the Newspaper Division of Gannett Co., Inc., a position from which she will be retiring in May 2008. Under the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan"), the Human Resources Committee of Pinnacle West's Board of Directors approved a grant of 1,100 shares of Pinnacle West common stock to Ms. Clark-Johnson, effective February 1, 2008, consistent with Pinnacle West's annual common stock grants to its outside directors. Ms. Clark-Johnson will serve on the Human Resources Committee, Finance, Nuclear and Operating Committee and Corporate Governance Committee of Pinnacle West's Board of Directors.
Director Not Standing for Re-election
     On January 23, 2008, Jack E. Davis announced that he will not stand for re-election as a director of Pinnacle West and APS at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 2008. As previously reported, Mr. Davis is retiring from his position as President and Chief Operating Officer of Pinnacle West and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of APS effective March 1, 2008.
2008 Incentive Plans
     On January 23, 2008, Pinnacle West's Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Board's Human Resources Committee (the "Committee"), approved the 2008 Pinnacle West Employee Variable Incentive Plan and the 2008 APS Employee Variable Incentive Plan (collectively, the "2008 Plans"). The 2008 Plans provide incentive award opportunities for Pinnacle West and APS employees, including the following "named executive officers" from the Company's proxy statement relating to its May 23, 2007 Annual Meeting: William J. Post, the Company's Chairman and CEO; and Donald E. Brandt, Pinnacle West's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and APS' President and Chief Financial Officer (the other named executive officers from that proxy statement have either retired or will be retiring this year and will not be participating in the 2008 Plans). As required by the Committee's Charter, the Committee, rather than the Board, approved Mr. Post's award opportunity.
     The award opportunity for Mr. Post is based on Pinnacle West's 2008 earnings and the award opportunity for Mr. Brandt is based on APS' 2008 earnings, excluding, in each case, impacts from Arizona Corporation Commission rate decisions. The Committee will evaluate impacts from prior period-related adjustments on actual earnings. Once the earnings threshold is met, the achievement of the level of earnings generally determines what award, if any, the participant receives. However, the amount of the award, if any, is in the sole discretion of the
 
Committee. Accordingly, the Committee may consider factors other than earnings, such as shareholder value creation, customer service, financial strength, operating performance, and safety. Subject to the foregoing, Mr. Post and Mr. Brandt each have an award opportunity of up to 150% of his base salary.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     is made and entered into as of (the "Date of Grant"), by and between Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company"), and ("Employee").
THIS AWARD AGREEMENT
                    
                                        
     In addition, the Restricted Stock Units will fully vest and no longer be subject to the restrictions of and forfeiture under this Award Agreement upon
 
Employee's Retirement. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Retirement" means a termination of employment which constitutes an "Early Retirement" or a "Normal Retirement" under the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Retirement Plan.
     For avoidance of doubt, no acceleration of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units will occur on a Change of Control of the Company.
 
 
     An authorized representative of the Company has signed this Award Agreement as of the Date of Grant.
 
In accordance with the terms of the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan and pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Award Agreement, I hereby elect to receive payment for the Restricted Stock Units that vest on the dates set forth below in the following form (place an "X" in the "Cash" column or in the "Stock" column for each of the years set forth below):
Note: If you elected to receive payment in the form of Stock for any vested Restricted Stock Units, complete Section 2.
If I elected above to receive payment in the form of Stock for any vested Restricted Stock Units, I hereby elect to satisfy any tax withholding obligation associated with my receipt of Stock in exchange for my Restricted Stock Units in the following form (place an "X" in the "Cash" column or in the "Stock" column):
IMPORTANT NOTE: Please complete and return this Election Form to at Mail Station
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 10.2
     is made and entered into as of , (the "Date of Grant"), by and between Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company"), and ("Employee").
THIS AWARD AGREEMENT
                    
                    
                    
 
 
 
     An authorized representative of the Company has signed this Award Agreement as of the Date of Grant.
 
 
     The Index will be the S&P 1500 Super Composite Electric Utility Index.
ASSUMPTIONS:
CALCULATION OF EMPLOYEE'S STOCK PAYMENT:

 
Exhibit 10.3
     is made and entered into as of _______________, ______ (the "Date of Grant"), by and between Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company"), and Name ("Employee").
THIS AWARD AGREEMENT
 
          For avoidance of doubt, no acceleration of vesting of the Restricted Shares will occur on a Change of Control of the Company or upon Employee's Retirement. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Retirement" means a termination of employment which constitutes an "Early Retirement" or a "Normal Retirement" under the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Retirement Plan.
          (a) . Employee understands and acknowledges that Employee may not make any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition (including transfer by gift or operation of law) of all or any portion of the Restricted Shares except in accordance with this Award Agreement.
Further Limitations on Disposition
          (b) . Employee understands that Section 83 of the Code taxes as ordinary income the difference between the amount paid for the Restricted Shares and the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares as of the date any restrictions on the Restricted Shares lapse. In this context, "restriction" means the restrictions set forth in Section 3 hereof. Employee understands that Employee may elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are granted rather than when and as the restrictions on the Restricted Shares lapse and the Restricted Shares vest by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days from the Date of Grant. Employee understands that failure to make this filing timely shall result in the recognition of ordinary income by Employee on the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time such restrictions lapse and the Restricted Shares vest.
Section 
83(b)
Election
          
EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS EMPLOYEE'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY, AND NOT THE COMPANY'S, TO TIMELY FILE THE ELECTION UNDER SECTION
83(b)
OF THE CODE, EVEN IF EMPLOYEE REQUESTS THAT THE COMPANY OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES MAKE THIS FILING ON EMPLOYEE'S BEHALF.
 
 
     An authorized representative of the Company has signed this Award Agreement as of the Date of Grant.


