FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20090422080045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") General Rate Case
On April 21, 2009, during a public procedural conference, Arizona Public Service Company ("APS") and the parties to APS' pending general retail rate case advised an Arizona Corporation Commission ("ACC") administrative law judge that the parties had reached an agreement in principle on the revenue requirements at issue in the rate case, and that they continue to work through remaining settlement terms. The parties agreed that, by noon on May 4, 2009, they will file a term sheet with the ACC outlining the major terms agreed to by the parties and a request for procedural order, including the date for the filing of a definitive settlement agreement, as well as proposed testimony and hearing dates. The ACC must approve any definitive settlement agreement entered into by the parties. We cannot predict whether or when the parties will enter into a settlement agreement or, if the parties do so, whether or when the ACC would approve the settlement agreement. For information regarding the general rate case, see "2008 General Rate Case" in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation/APS Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


