FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20090804080102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 4, 2009, Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company" or "Pinnacle West") issued a press release regarding its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Certain of the information referenced in Item 7.01 below relates to the Company's results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009. This information is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Financial and Business Information
The Company is providing a quarterly consolidated statistical summary and a copy of the slide presentation made in connection with the quarterly earnings conference call on August 4, 2009 to help interested parties better understand its business (see Exhibits 99.1 and 99.3). This information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at , which also contains a glossary of relevant terms.
www.pinnaclewest.com
2009 Earnings Outlook
In this discussion, earnings per share amounts are after income taxes and are based on diluted common shares outstanding. The earnings guidance in this Form 8-K supersedes all previous earnings guidance provided by Pinnacle West.
Our earnings forecasts are subject to numerous risks, including those described under "Forward-Looking Statements" below and under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
We estimate that our consolidated earnings for 2009 will be within a reasonable range around $2.30 per share, excluding the impact of SunCor Development Company ("SunCor"). This guidance takes into account the effects of milder weather in the first quarter, as well as the 2009 portion of the annualized pretax cost savings identified in our March 2009 report to the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC"), as required by the ACC's interim rate decision in December 2008.
We estimate that Arizona Public Service Company's ("APS") earnings contribution included in such consolidated earnings will be within a reasonable range around $2.35 per share (equivalent to a return on APS' average common equity of about 7%). This estimate assumes that the interim base rate surcharge will remain in effect throughout 2009. We currently estimate that holding company expenses and other items, net, will be a net loss within a reasonable range around $0.05 per share. For additional details regarding the major factors affecting our consolidated earnings outlook for 2009, see Exhibit 99.4 attached hereto.
2010 Earnings Outlook
Assuming APS' proposed general retail rate settlement is approved as proposed and is effective for the entire year, we estimate that our consolidated earnings for 2010, with negligible impact from SunCor, if any, will be within a reasonable range around $3.00 per share. We estimate that APS' earnings contribution included in such 2010 consolidated earnings will be within a reasonable range around $3.00 per share (equivalent to a return on APS' average common equity of about 9%). We currently estimate that holding company expenses and other items, net, will not have any meaningful impact on our 2010 consolidated financial results. For additional details regarding major factors affecting our consolidated earnings outlook for 2010, see Exhibit 99.5 attached hereto.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding our 2009 and 2010 earnings outlook. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements or make any further statements on any of these issues, except as required by applicable law. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "hope," "may," "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. In addition to the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, these factors include, but are not limited to, state and federal regulatory and legislative decisions and actions, including the outcome or timing of the pending rate case of APS; increases in our capital expenditures and operating costs and our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of these increased costs; our ability to reduce capital expenditures and other costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels, and unexpected developments that would limit us from achieving all or some of our planned capital expenditure reductions; volatile fuel and purchased power costs, including fluctuations in market prices for natural gas, coal, uranium and other fuels used in our generating facilities, availability of supplies of such commodities, and our ability to recover the costs of such commodities; the outcome and resulting costs of regulatory, legislative and judicial proceedings, both current and future, including those related to environmental matters and climate change; the availability of sufficient water supplies to operate our generation facilities, including as the result of drought conditions; the potential for additional restructuring of the electric industry, including decisions impacting wholesale competition and the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona; regional, national and international economic and market conditions, including the strength of the real estate, credit and financial markets; the potential adverse impact of current economic conditions on our results of operations; the cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets; changes in the market price of our common stock; restrictions on dividends or other burdensome provisions in new or existing credit agreements; our ability, or the ability of our subsidiaries, to meet debt service obligations; current credit ratings remaining in effect for any given period of time; the performance of the stock market and the changing interest rate environment, which affect the value of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plan assets, the amount of required contributions to Pinnacle West's pension plan and contributions to APS' nuclear decommissioning trust funds, as well as the reported costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits and our ability to recover such costs; volatile market liquidity, any deteriorating counterparty credit and the use of derivative contracts in our business (including the interpretation of the subjective and complex accounting rules related to these contracts); the potential shortfall in insurance coverage for a loss resulting from an insurer failing to meet, or being unwilling to meet, its obligations under our insurance policies, or from our commercially reasonable levels of insurance failing to fully cover the loss incurred; changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the interpretation of those principles and the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards; customer growth and energy usage; weather variations affecting local and regional customer energy usage; power plant performance and outages; transmission outages and constraints; the completion of generation and transmission construction in the region, which could affect customer growth and the cost of power supplies; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, regulatory, health and financial risks, risk of terrorist attack, planned and unplanned outages, and unfunded decommissioning costs; the ability of our power plant participants to meet contractual or other obligations; technological developments in the electric industry; the results of litigation and other proceedings resulting from the California and Pacific Northwest energy situations; the performance of Pinnacle West's subsidiaries and any resulting effects on its cash flow; the strength of the real estate and credit markets and economic and other conditions affecting the real estate and credit markets in SunCor's market areas, which include Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of Pinnacle West and APS.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Last Updated 8/4/2009
 
Last Updated 8/4/2009
 
Last Updated 8/4/2009
 
Last Updated 8/4/2009
 

PHOENIX  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $68.3 million, or $0.68 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. These results compare with net income attributable to common shareholders of $133.9 million, or $1.33 per diluted share, for the same period a year ago.
The Company's on-going consolidated earnings in the 2009 second quarter were $77.3 million, or $0.77 per share, compared with $89.2 million, or $0.88 per share in the comparable 2008 quarter. On-going earnings for both quarters exclude results for the Company's real estate segment. Second-quarter 2008 on-going earnings also exclude income tax credits related to prior years of $30 million.
Arizona Public Service Co. (APS) reported a decrease in on-going earnings, recording income of $78.5 million for the 2009 second quarter, compared with $96.1 million in the 2008 like period. Rising costs incurred by APS to maintain reliability and expand its electric service were the primary factor driving the lower results. These costs included: seasonal power plant overhauls and system maintenance; increased expenses related to infrastructure additions; and lower mark-to-market valuations of fuel contracts. A decrease in kilowatt-hour sales, principally from commercial and industrial customers, also contributed to the diminished quarterly results. An interim retail rate increase implemented in January 2009 and modest customer growth partially offset the negative factors.
"The bottom line is our current electricity prices do not reflect our real cost of doing business," said Pinnacle West Chairman Don Brandt. "We must continue working with our regulators to better match our prices and costs while continuing to control costs. Cost management alone will not provide the financial strength necessary for APS to reliably serve our customers and provide a fair return for our investors."
Brandt cited APS' proposed retail rate settlement pending before the Arizona Corporation Commission as an example of the progress being achieved on the regulatory front. "Our Company is focused on working with the Commission and other interested parties to find positive solutions to complex and difficult energy issues facing our customers now and going forward," he said. "If approved as proposed, the settlement will provide a measure of price stability for APS customers, and enable APS to attract the capital that is critical to support a sustainable energy future for the state of Arizona."
The settlement not only addresses pricing and earnings issues, added Brandt, it also promotes renewable resources, energy efficiency and environmental stewardship that provide the building blocks for a recovery of economic vitality for the state of Arizona.
 
For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit .
www.pinnaclewest.com/investors
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live web cast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2009 second-quarter results and recent developments at 12 noon (ET) today, August 4. The web cast can be accessed at and will be available for replay on the web site for 30 days. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter Conference ID Number 16241469. A replay of the call also will be available until 11:55 p.m. (ET), Tuesday, August 11, 2009, by calling (800) 642-1687 in the U.S. and Canada or (706) 645-9291 internationally and entering the same Conference ID number as above.
Conference Call
www.pinnaclewest.com/presentations
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of about $11.9 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4

Exhibit 99.5


