FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20100602145821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing or furnishing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant or, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing or furnishing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 1, 2010, the Board of Directors of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West") expanded the number of directors by one and elected Dr. Dale E. Klein as a Director. Dr. Klein's initial term will extend until the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Directors of Arizona Public Service Company, the principal subsidiary of Pinnacle West, also elected Dr. Klein to its Board. The Board expects to designate committee assignments for Dr. Klein at a future meeting. Dr. Klein will participate in the compensation arrangements for non-employee directors described on page 12 of the Pinnacle West Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 19, 2010.
A copy of the Press Release dated June 1, 2010 announcing Dr. Klein's election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX  The Board of Directors of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) announced today that Dr. Dale E. Klein has been elected to the Pinnacle West Board of Directors. He also has joined the Board of Pinnacle West's principal subsidiary, Arizona Public Service Company.
Dr. Klein, 62, served as Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission from July 2006 to May 2009, and thereafter as a Commissioner until March 30, 2010. Prior to his service on the NRC, Dr. Klein was Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical and Biological Defense Programs from November 2001 to July 2006. Before embarking on his government service, Dr. Klein held a variety of teaching and leadership positions at the College of Engineering of the University of Texas at Austin, with a focus on the University's nuclear program. Since leaving the NRC, he has returned to the University as Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Vice President for Research, and Associate Director of the University's Energy Institute.
"Dr. Klein's world-class expertise in all aspects of nuclear energy regulation, operation, technology and safety will make him an outstanding addition to our Board," said Pinnacle West Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Don Brandt. "We will benefit from the same high standards, excellent business practices, focus on new technologies, communication skills, and sound judgment that Dr. Klein brought to the NRC. His wide national and international experience in the nuclear energy industry and in government will be of great value to our company, not only from the perspective of our operations at the Palo Verde nuclear station, but also as we take advantage of opportunities in our evolving utility business."
Dr. Klein is a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Nuclear Society, and the recipient of numerous professional awards in the engineering field. He has published more than 100 technical papers and reports, and co-edited one book. Dr. Klein received his Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering from the University of Missouri  Columbia in 1977.
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of about $12 billion. Through its subsidiaries the Company generates, sells and delivers energy related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States.


