FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20100407163437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Public Offering of Common Stock
     On April 7, 2010, Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("PNW") issued a press release related to the announcement of a public offering of common stock, which is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) announced today that it has commenced a public offering of 6 million shares of its common stock. The offering price of the shares will be determined by market conditions at the time of pricing, in consultation with the underwriters.
In connection with the offering, the Company has granted the underwriters an option for a period of 30 days to purchase up to an additional 900,000 shares of the Company's common stock.
Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse, BofA Merrill Lynch, and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as joint book-running managers for the transaction.
A shelf registration statement relating to the securities in this offering was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is effective.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The offering may be made only by means of a prospectus and a related prospectus supplement, copies of which may be obtained when available from:
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix, Arizona-based company. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States.


