FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20100219080113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
This combined Form 8-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Pinnacle West Facility
On February 12, 2010, Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West" or the "Company") entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as Agent and Issuing Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agent and Issuing Bank, Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, as Co-Syndication Agents, the lender parties thereto, and certain other parties, allowing Pinnacle West to borrow, repay and reborrow, from time to time, up to $200 million on or prior to February 12, 2013. The facility replaces Pinnacle West's prior $283 million revolver with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, which would have expired on December 9, 2010. Pinnacle West will use the facility for general corporate purposes, including as a standby facility to support commercial paper issuances. The facility can also be used for letters of credit.
Borrowings under the facility will bear interest based on Pinnacle West's then-current senior unsecured debt credit ratings.
Borrowings under the facility are conditioned on Pinnacle West's ability to make certain representations at the time each borrowing is made, except for representations concerning no material adverse effect and certain litigation matters, which were made only at the time the facility was entered into. The facility includes customary covenants, including requirements that Pinnacle West maintain ownership of a specified percentage of the outstanding capital stock of Arizona Public Service Company ("APS"), maintain a maximum consolidated debt-to-capitalization ratio and comply with a negative lien provision. The facility also includes customary events of default, including a cross default provision and a change of control provision. If an event of default occurs, lenders holding a specified percentage of the commitments, or the administrative agent with such lenders' consent, may terminate the obligations of the lenders to make loans under the facility and the obligations of the issuing banks to issue letters of credit and may declare the obligations outstanding under the facility to be due and payable.
Pinnacle West and its affiliates maintain normal banking and other relationships with the agents and other lenders in the facility.
APS Facility
Also on February 12, 2010, APS entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Agent and Issuing Bank, Bank of America, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agent and Issuing Bank, Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, as Co-Syndication Agents, the lender parties thereto, and certain other parties, allowing APS to borrow, repay and reborrow, from time to time, up to $500 million on or prior to February 12, 2013. The facility replaces APS' prior $377 million revolver with Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, which would have expired on December 9, 2010. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes, including as a standby facility to support commercial paper issuances. The facility can also be used for letters of credit.
 
Borrowings under the facility will bear interest based on APS' then-current senior unsecured debt credit ratings.
Borrowings under the facility are conditioned on APS' ability to make certain representations except for representations, at the time each borrowing is made, concerning no material adverse effect and certain litigation matters, which were made only at the time the facility was entered into. The facility includes customary covenants, including that APS maintain a maximum consolidated debt-to-capitalization ratio and comply with a negative lien provision. The facility also includes customary events of default, including a cross default provision and a change of control provision relating to Pinnacle West. If an event of default occurs, lenders holding a specified percentage of the commitments, or the administrative agent with such lenders' consent, may terminate the obligations of the lenders to make loans under the facility and the obligations of the issuing banks to issue letters of credit and may declare the obligations outstanding under the facility to be due and payable.
APS and its affiliates maintain normal banking and other relationships with the agents and other lenders in the facility.
On February 19, 2010, Pinnacle West issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 and its earnings outlook for 2010 and 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information referenced in Item 7.01 below contains Company operating results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009. This information is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4.
The Company is providing a quarterly consolidated statistical summary, quarterly earnings variance explanations and a copy of the slide presentation made in connection with its quarterly earnings conference call on February 19, 2010 (see Exhibits 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4). This information is concurrently being posted to the Company's website at , which also contains a glossary of relevant terms.
www.pinnaclewest.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported a consolidated net loss attributable to common shareholders of $30.2 million, or $0.30 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. This result compares with a consolidated net loss of $38.9 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, for the same quarter a year ago. From an on-going earnings perspective, the Company reported a consolidated net loss in the 2009 fourth quarter of $15.9 million, or $0.16 per share, compared with a net loss of $8.7 million, or $0.08 per share, in the same 2008 period.
For the year 2009 as a whole, Pinnacle West reported consolidated net income of $68.3 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, compared with 2008 net income of $242.1 million, or $2.40 per diluted share. On-going consolidated earnings for 2009 were $235.5 million, or $2.33 per share as compared to $238.1 million, or $2.36 per share, a year ago.
On-going earnings for both fourth quarters exclude results for the Company's real estate segment, which is being restructured through the sale of a substantial majority of its properties. The 2008 fourth quarter also excludes severance costs and income from the resolution of tax issues related to a 2005 power plant sale. In addition, the full-year on-going earnings exclude income tax credits related to prior years recorded in 2008. Reconciliations of our reported earnings to on-going earnings are provided at the end of this release.
The 2009 fourth-quarter on-going results were positively impacted by the following major factors:
 
 
These positive factors were more than offset by the following items:
"Earnings for the year were in line with our expectations, and the Company's operational performance in 2009 was solid," said Pinnacle West Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Don Brandt. "Even under the current difficult economic conditions, we are experiencing modest customer growth and are focused on excellence in our core business, including controlling costs and ranking in the top quartile nationally for customer satisfaction."
Brandt said "strong performance at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station continues to benefit customers and our bottom line." The Plant generated more than 30 million megawatt-hours (MWh) for the fifth time, generating 30.7 million MWh in 2009, the second-best production year in its history. Palo Verde is the only generating facility of any type in the U.S. to ever exceed 30 million MWh in a single year. The Plant's three units achieved a combined year-end capacity factor of 89 percent.
Brandt added that the positive resolution of APS's retail regulatory settlement "better positions us to focus on ensuring a bright energy future for Arizona. A major part of that focus is achieving the benefits of the settlement for all parties and effective cost management."
 
Arizona Public Service Co. (APS), the Company's principal subsidiary, recorded 2009 net income of $251.2 million compared with net income of $262.3 million in 2008. APS on-going earnings for the full year were $251.2 million compared with $241.0 million in 2008. For the 2009 fourth quarter, APS reported a net loss of $8.9 million, compared with a net loss of $16.4 million for the same period in 2008. From an on-going earnings perspective, APS lost $8.9 million in the 2009 fourth quarter versus a loss of $11.9 million in the 2008 like quarter.
Real Estate Segment
Pinnacle West's real estate segment reported a net loss of $14.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared with a net loss of $33.9 million in the prior-year period. The Company decided in early 2009 to restructure its real estate subsidiary, SunCor Development Co., by selling the substantial majority of its assets. This effort is well underway and additional sales are expected.
2010 and 2011 On-going Earnings Outlook
Pinnacle West's 2010 on-going consolidated earnings are expected to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.10 per diluted share. Key factors and assumptions are detailed below:
The Company estimates its 2011 on-going consolidated earnings will be within the guidance range provided for 2010 on-going consolidated earnings, with some opportunity for modestly exceeding that range.
 
Conference Call and Web Cast
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live web cast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2009 fourth-quarter and year-end results, as well as recent developments at 11 a.m. (ET) today, February 19. The web cast can be accessed at and will be available for replay on the web site for 30 days. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 356-3961 and enter Conference ID 49140974. A replay of the call also will be available until 11:55 p.m. (ET), Friday, February 26, 2010, by calling (800) 642-1687 in the U.S. and Canada or (706) 645-9291 internationally and entering the same Conference ID number as above.
www.pinnaclewest.com/presentations
General Information
Pinnacle West is a Phoenix-based company with consolidated assets of about $12 billion. Through its subsidiaries, the Company generates, sells and delivers electricity and sells energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers in the western United States.
Dollar amounts in this news release are after income taxes. Earnings per share amounts are based on average diluted common shares outstanding. For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit
www.pinnaclewest.com/investors.
 
In this press release, we refer to "on-going earnings." On-going earnings is a "non-GAAP financial measure," as defined in accordance with SEC rules. We believe on-going earnings provide investors with a useful indicator of our results that is comparable among periods because it excludes the effects of unusual items that may occur on an irregular basis. Investors should note that these non-GAAP financial measures involve judgments by management, including whether an item is classified as an unusual item. We use on-going earnings, or similar concepts, to measure our performance internally in reports for management.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our 2010 and 2011 earnings outlook. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "may," "believe," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. These factors include:
 
These and other factors are discussed in Risk Factors described in Item 1A of the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which you should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or our earnings outlook. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as may be required by applicable law.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Last Updated 2/19/2010
See Glossary of Terms.
 
Last Updated 2/19/2010
See Glossary of Terms.
 
Last Updated 2/19/2010
See Glossary of Terms.
 
Last Updated 2/19/2010
 
See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
Last Updated 2/19/10
The following discussion includes the earnings variance explanations for Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West") for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We suggest that this discussion be read in connection with the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com).
Our results of operations, provided below, are based upon our two reportable business segments:
Operating Results  Three-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared with three-month period ended December 31, 2008
Our consolidated net loss attributable to common shareholders for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $30 million, compared with a net loss of $39 million for the comparable prior-year period. The improved results were primarily due to lower real estate impairment charges recorded in 2009 compared with the prior-year period by SunCor, the Company's real estate subsidiary.
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
The following table presents net loss attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior-year period:
Regulated electricity segment
This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment.
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses
Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $25 million higher for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period. The following table describes the major components of this change:
Operations and maintenance expenses increased $22 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of:
Operations and maintenance
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS' existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades.
Depreciation and amortization
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
Taxes other than income taxes decreased $8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of the timing of property tax rate adjustments.
Taxes other than income taxes
Other income (expenses), net improved $6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Other income (expenses), net
Income tax benefits were $7 million lower for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of lower pretax losses.
Income taxes
Real estate segment
The real estate segment net loss attributable to common shareholders was $20 million lower for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of:
All Other
All other earnings were $14 million lower for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior-year period primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities and the absence of the 2008 resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005.
Operating Results  2009 Compared with 2008
Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2009 was $68 million, compared with net income of $242 million for the prior year. The decrease in net income was primarily due to 2009 real estate impairment charges recorded by SunCor.
In addition, regulated electricity segment net income decreased approximately $13 million from the prior year primarily due to lower retail sales resulting from lower usage per customer; higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and the absence of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to the interim rate increase effective January 1, 2009 and transmission rate increases.
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:
Regulated electricity segment
This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment.
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses
Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $127 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change:
Operations and maintenance expenses increased $66 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of:
Operations and maintenance
 
Last Updated 2/19/10
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $17 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS' existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades.
Depreciation and amortization
Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs increased $28 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher debt balances, partially offset by the effects of lower interest rates. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense, capitalized interest and allowance for equity funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs
Other income (expenses), net improved $19 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Other income (expenses), net
Income taxes were $50 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of $30 million of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008 and higher pretax income.
Income taxes
Real estate segment
During the first quarter of 2009, we decided to restructure SunCor through the sale of substantially all of its assets. The real estate segment net loss attributable to common shareholders was $141 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of:
All Other
All other earnings were $20 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities and the absence of the 2008 resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005.
 
 


