FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20110601060250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately filed or furnished by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company.  Each registrant is filing or furnishing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries.  Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing or furnishing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 7.01
              
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Investor and Analyst Meetings and Rate Case Materials
 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West") will be participating in various investor and analyst meetings from June 1, 2011 through June 3, 2011 and will be utilizing slides during those meetings.  Copies of the slides are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
As described under Item 8.01 below, Arizona Public Service Company ("APS" or the "Company") will be filing an application and related schedules with the Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC") on June 1, 2011.  These materials are posted on an APS website at www.azenergyfuture.com.  The information on this website is not incorporated by reference into this report.
 
Item 8.01
              
Other Events.
 
Retail Rate Case Filing with the Arizona Corporation Commission
 
On June 1, 2011, APS will file an application with the ACC for a net retail base rate increase of $95.5 million.  The Company will request that the increase become effective July 1, 2012.  The request would increase the average retail customer bill approximately 6.6%.  The filing is based on a test year ended December 31, 2010, adjusted as described below.  APS expects the ACC to issue a procedural schedule during the next sixty days detailing the timeline for addressing the request.
 
The key financial provisions of the request will include:
 
                 
an increase in non-fuel base rates of $194.1 million, before the reclassification into base rates of $44.9 million of revenues related to solar generation projects collected through the Company's renewable energy surcharge (which will increase base rates) and $143.5 million of lower fuel and purchased power costs currently addressed through the Power Supply Adjustor (the "PSA") (which will decrease base rates);
 
                 
a rate base of $5.7 billion, which approximates the ACC-jurisdictional portion of the book value of utility assets, net of accumulated depreciation and other credits, as of December 31, 2010, subject to certain adjustments, including plant additions under construction at the end of the test year that are currently in service or expected to be placed into service before the proposed rates are requested to become effective;
 
                
the following proposed capital structure and costs of capital:
 
 
                 
a base rate for fuel and purchased power costs ("Base Fuel Rate") of $0.03242 per kilowatt-hour ("kWh") based on estimated 2012 prices (a decrease from the current Base Fuel Rate of $0.03757 per kWh).
The Company will propose that its PSA be modified to allow full pass-through of all fuel and purchased power costs, instead of the current 90/10 sharing provision.  In addition, APS will propose two new recovery mechanisms that would adjust electricity rates annually between changes in retail base rates.  The Efficiency and Infrastructure Account, a decoupling mechanism, would address recovery of the Company's fixed costs after reflecting implementation of ACC-mandated energy efficiency standards and renewable distributed generation.  The Environmental and Reliability Account, a generation infrastructure adjustment mechanism, would allow recovery of the costs associated with generation investments related to new generation additions, generation efficiency projects and environmental compliance requirements.
 
On June 1, 2011, APS issued a press release announcing its filing with the ACC described above.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
PHOENIX  Arizona Public Service Company later today will ask the Arizona Corporation Commission for approval to increase customer bills by 6.6 percent, effective July 1, 2012. The request is needed to help meet Arizona's energy goals, including:
 
                 
Continuing to maintain and upgrade the reliable electric system APS customers expect.
                 
Producing 15 percent of the electricity used by APS customers from renewable generation by 2020. Today, the company obtains 3 percent of its generation from renewables.
                 
Meeting 22 percent of the energy needs of the company's customers through energy efficiency measures by 2020. The current number for APS customers is 3.6 percent.
 
"Two years ago, we came together with the ACC and 21 other stakeholders to create a long-term vision for Arizona's energy future. That shared vision includes continued upgrades to our power grid, ambitious goals for a cleaner energy supply and new energy efficiency programs for our customers," said Don Robinson, APS President and Chief Operating Officer. "We are meeting those goals and spending about $1 billion each year to create a cleaner, reliable and more efficient energy future for Arizona. Now we are asking the ACC to continue its support of this plan."
 
The rate request also would enable the company to incorporate more smart technology into Arizona's electric grid and enhance control for customers over their energy use and bills.
 
If the company's request is approved, the typical APS residential customer using 1,100 kilowatt hours per month would see a bill increase of $8.36 for a total of $135.61.
 
Robinson said that most APS customers could offset the impact of the rate increase by participating in one or more of the company's energy efficiency programs. "The savings can be substantial," Robinson said. "For example, participation in our refrigerator recycling program could offset the entire increase. Even something as simple as installing compact fluorescent light bulbs can make a big difference."
 
This request comes only after significant cost management on the part of the company. Since the 2009 rate case, APS has cut operating costs by more than $37 million. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's recent approval of Palo Verde's application for a 20-year renewal of its operating license also lowered the request.
 
The filing also seeks to modernize the way electric rates are set to reflect the importance of energy efficiency as a clean and affordable way to meet customer demand. "The current rate structure was created in the early 1900s, long before energy conservation became an important national priority," said Robinson. The APS proposal would eliminate the company's incentive for customers to consume more energy and ensure that energy efficiency programs can be used when the best resource choice for APS and its customers is using less energy.
 
These ongoing efforts are paying off for customers:
 
                 
The APS system continues as one of the most reliable in the nation. The company is among the industry leaders in reliability measurements that track frequency and duration of service interruptions.
                 
Renewable generating resources have increased from almost nothing (less than one megawatt) 10 years ago to enough (304 megawatts) to power a city the size of Yuma today.
                 
APS is spending about $500 million to build 100 megawatts of new photovoltaic solar plants located across Arizona that together are known as "AZ Sun."
                 
In 2010, APS energy efficiency programs resulted in 319 million kilowatt hours of savings, which is equal to the total usage of approximately 24,000 average residential customers.
                 
APS has installed nearly 610,000 smart meters and is testing and implementing other smart grid technologies.
                 
Customer satisfaction levels are at all-time highs. According to the latest J.D. Power residential survey that measures such factors as price, billing and payment, customer service and power quality and reliability, APS ranks third nationally among 55 investor-owned utilities.
 
"All of these are huge steps, but especially our commitment to take advantage of the energy potential of the sun," said Robinson. "The sun is an abundant resource in Arizona and reduces our need to burn fossil fuels. The funding provided by this rate request will help build a reliable and sustainable energy future for Arizona."
 
For more information on the APS request, go to azenergyfuture.com.
 
APS, Arizona's largest and longest-serving electricity utility, serves more than 1.1 million customers in 11 of the state's 15 counties. With headquarters in Phoenix, APS is the principal subsidiary of Pinnacle West Capital Corp. (NYSE: PNW).


