FILE:PNW/PNW-8K-20120224080046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately filed or furnished by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and Arizona Public Service Company.  Each registrant is filing or furnishing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 8-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries.  Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing or furnishing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to both Item 2.02 and 7.01.
 
On February 24, 2012, Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company is providing a quarterly and full year consolidated statistical summary and earnings variance explanations and a copy of the slide presentation made in connection with its earnings conference call on February 24, 2012.  This information contains Company operating results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4.  The summary, earnings variance explanations and slide presentation are concurrently being posted to the Company's website at www.pinnaclewest.com, which also contains a glossary of relevant terms.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                 
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                 
Disciplined cost-management and strong operational performance benefit bottom line
 
                 
Pending regulatory settlement would produce benefits for both customers and shareholders
 
                 
2011 results exceed earnings guidance
 
PHOENIX - Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated on-going earnings of $12.1 million, or $0.11 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. This result compares with on-going earnings of $5.2 million, or $0.05 per share, in the same 2010 period. The Company's net income attributable to common shareholders for the 2011 fourth quarter was $12.6 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, compared with net income of $7.4 million, or $0.07 per share, for the same quarter a year ago.
 
For full-year 2011, Pinnacle West reported consolidated on-going earnings of $328.1 million, or $2.99 per share, as compared to $324.7 million, or $3.03 per share, a year ago. Consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2011 was $339.5 million, or $3.09 per diluted share, compared with 2010 net income of $350.1 million, or $3.27 per diluted share.
 
On-going earnings exclude results of discontinued operations primarily related to the Company's real estate activities and former energy services business. A reconciliation of reported earnings to on-going earnings is provided at the end of this release.
 
"Disciplined cost management, concentration on our core electricity business and superior operational performance by our dedicated employees  particularly in the areas of customer service, reliability and safety  produced sound financial results," said Pinnacle West Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Don Brandt.
 
Brandt added that the Company's 2011 results exceeded its earnings guidance. The Company had projected that on-going earnings would be near the top of its guidance range of $2.75 to $2.90 per share. The actual results were due, in part, to lower than expected operating and maintenance costs, and cooler than normal weather that increased retail sales in the fourth quarter by a similar amount as the year-ago period.
 
"We achieved a significant milestone with the proposed settlement of APS's pending retail rate case," said Brandt. "The agreement has broad support and contains provisions important to customers, shareholders and other stakeholders." The settlement is pending approval by the Arizona Corporation Commission. APS and the other parties have requested the agreement take effect July 1, 2012.
 
Brandt cited additional examples of the Company's recent achievements:
 
                 
In 2011, APS continued its top-tier customer satisfaction rating, maintained superior power plant performance, and provided its 1.1 million customers with record levels of service reliability.
 
                 
Standard & Poor's Corporation (S&P) raised credit ratings in June for Pinnacle West and APS to BBB, up from BBB-, thus reducing borrowing costs and improving access to debt markets.S&P cited the companies' stronger credit metrics, reduction in debt, improving regulatory environment and prudent financial managementas contributing factors.
 
                 
APS also celebrated several renewable energy milestones as the AZ Sun Program (APS-owned solar energy) added 50 megawatts of new solar capacity, enough to serve more than 12,000 APS customers. With these plants, APS's renewable energy portfolio now includes 423 megawatts with an additional 523 megawatts in development. New solar and wind plants to serve APS customers have created more than 2,400 design, engineering and construction jobs for Arizona.
 
The fourth-quarter on-going results comparison was positively impacted by the following major factors:
 
                 
A decrease in operations and maintenance expenses
improved earnings by $0.06 per share, due largely to lower power plant maintenance costs as a result of more work being completed earlier in the year than in 2010; and to lower employee benefit costs, partially offset by higher customer service and energy delivery expenses. The variance excludes costs associated with renewable energy and energy efficiency programs, which are offset by comparable amounts of operating revenues.
 
                 
Higher transmission revenues
improved earnings by $0.03 per share, primarily because ofa retail transmission rate increase implemented in July 2011.
 
These positive factors were partially offset by the absence of tax benefits of $0.06 per share that were recorded in the 2010 fourth quarter, but were related to prior years.
 
APS, the Company's principal subsidiary, recorded 2011 fourth-quarter net income attributable to common shareholder of $14.3 million versus net income of $7.8 million for the comparable 2010 quarter. For 2011 as a whole, APS net income attributable to common shareholder was $336.2 million compared with $335.7 million for 2010.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live webcast of management's conference call to discuss the Company's 2011 fourth-quarter and full-year results, as well as recent developments, at 11 a.m. (ET) today, February 24. The webcast can be accessed at pinnaclewest.com/presentations and will be available for replay on the website for 30 days. To access the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 407-8035 or (201) 689-8035 for international callers. A replay of the call also will be available until 11:59 p.m. (ET), Friday, March 2, 2012, by calling (877) 660-6853 in the U.S. and Canada or (201) 612-7415 internationally and entering account number 286, followed by conference ID number 386657.
 
General Information
 
Pinnacle West Capital, an energy holding company based in Phoenix, has consolidated assets of about $13.1 billion, more than 6,300 megawatts of generating capacity and about 6,700 employees in Arizona and New Mexico. Through its principal subsidiary, Arizona Public Service, the Company provides retail electricity service to more than 1.1 million Arizona homes and businesses. For more information about Pinnacle West, visit the Company's website at pinnaclewest.com.
 
Dollar amounts in this news release are after income taxes.  Earnings per share amounts are based on average diluted common shares outstanding.  For more information on Pinnacle West's operating statistics and earnings, please visit pinnaclewest.com/investors.
 
In this press release, we refer to "on-going earnings." On-going earnings is a "non-GAAP financial measure," as defined in accordance with SEC rules. We believe on-going earnings provide investors with a useful indicator of our results that is comparable among periods because it excludes the effects of unusual items that may occur on an irregular basis. Investors should note that these non-GAAP financial measures involve judgments by management, including whether an item is classified as an unusual item. We use on-going earnings, or similar concepts, to measure our performance internally in reports for management.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.  These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "may," "believe," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements.
 
A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS.  These factors include, but are not limited to:
 
                 
our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs, including returns on debt and equity capital;
                 
our ability to manage capital expenditures and other costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels;
                 
variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, the general economy, customer and sales growth (or decline), and the effects of energy conservation measures and distributed generation;
                 
power plant and transmission system performance and outages;
                 
volatile fuel and purchased power costs;
                 
fuel and water supply availability;
                 
regulatory and judicial decisions, developments and proceedings;
                 
new legislation or regulation including those relating to environmental requirements and nuclear plant operations;
                 
our ability to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover related costs;
                 
risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty;
                 
competition in retail and wholesale power markets;
                 
the duration and severity of the economic decline in Arizona and current real estate market conditions;
                 
the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capital markets when required;
                 
changes to our credit ratings;
                 
the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements;
                 
the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business;
                 
potential shortfalls in insurance coverage;
                 
new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements;
                 
generation, transmission and distribution facility and system conditions and operating costs;
                 
the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional baseload generation and associated transmission facilities in our region;
                 
the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plant participants and power plant land owners to meet contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations;
                 
technological developments affecting the electric industry; and
                 
restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and Arizona Corporation Commission orders.
 
These and other factors are discussed in Risk Factors described in Item 1A of the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or disclosures.  Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as required by law.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Last Updated  2/24/2012     
 
See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated  2/24/2012      
 
See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated  2/24/2012     
 
See Glossary of Terms.
Last Updated  2/24/2012      
 
 
Sources:
(a)    Arizona Real Estate Center, Arizona State University W.P. Carey College of Business
(b)    Arizona Department of Economic Security
See Glossary of Terms.

Exhibit 99.3
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
Last Updated
2/24/12
 
The following discussion includes the earnings variance explanations for Pinnacle West Capital Corporation ("Pinnacle West") for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. We suggest that this discussion be read in connection with the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Additional operating and financial statistics and a glossary of terms are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com).
Pinnacle West's reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electricity service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution.
 
APSES's and SunCor's operations have been classified as discontinued operations.  Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES in August 2011.
 
Operating Results  Three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared with three-month period ended December 31, 2010
 
Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the three months ended December 31, 2011 was $13 million, compared with net income of $7 million for the comparable prior-year period.  The results reflect an increase of approximately $7 million for the regulated electricity segment primarily due to increased revenues related to higher retail transmission charges and decreased operations and maintenance expenses, partially offset by higher income taxes, including income tax benefits recognized in the prior-year period.
 
Last Updated
2/24/12
 
The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior-year period:
 
 
 
Regulated electricity segment
 
This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment.
 
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses 
Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $23 million higher for the three months ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior-year period.  The following table describes the major components of this change:
 
Last Updated
2/24/12
 
 
Operations and maintenance
  Operations and maintenance expenses decreased $2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior-year period primarily because of:
 
 
Income taxes 
Income taxes were $12 million higher for the three months ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior-year period primarily due to higher pretax income in the current-year period.  In addition, the three months ended December 31, 2010 included $4 million of income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2010 and $2 million of income tax benefits related to the extension of the Federal R&D credit.
 
Operating Results  2011 Compared with 2010
 
Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $339 million, compared with net income of $350 million for the prior year.  The $11 million net decrease consisted of a $14 million decrease in income from discontinued operations and a $3 million increase in income from continuing operations primarily related to the regulated electricity segment.  Regulated electricity segment results reflect increased revenues related to weather and higher retail transmission charges and decreased operations and maintenance expenses.  These positive factors were offset by higher depreciation and amortization due to increased plant in service, higher property
Last Updated
2/24/12
taxes due to increased property tax rates and higher income taxes, including income tax benefits recognized in the prior year.
In addition, income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of approximately $10 million after income taxes related to the sale of our investment in APSES.  Income from discontinued operations in the prior year was due to a $25 million gain after income taxes related to the sale of APSES's district cooling business.
 
The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:
 
 
Last Updated
2/24/12
 
Regulated electricity segment
 
This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment.
 
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses 
Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $94 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year.  The following table describes the major components of this change:
 
 
Operations and maintenance
  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of:
 
 
Depreciation and amortization 
Depreciation and amortization expenses were $12 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service.
Last Updated
2/24/12
Taxes other than income taxes 
Taxes other than income taxes increased $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current period.
 
Income taxes 
Income taxes were $23 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year.  This increase was primarily due to the effects of higher pretax income in the current year and income tax benefits recognized in the prior year related to a reduction in the Company's 2010 effective income tax rate.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
Income from discontinued operations for year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of $10 million related to the sale of our investment in APSES.  Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 included an after tax gain of $25 million related to the sale of APSES's district cooling business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


