FILE:X/X-8K-20051220144547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 15, 2005, U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o. ("USSK"), a company organized under the laws of the Slovak Republic and a wholly-owned subsidiary of United States Steel Corporation ("USS"), entered into a facility agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with ING Bank N.V., CITIBANK, N.A. Bahrain, and Slovensk Sporentel'a, a.s. as arrangers. The Credit Agreement provides for a EUR195,000,000 one-year revolving unsecured credit facility. USSK is also party to a USD40,000,000 revolving credit facility dated December 17, 2001 with the same banks that expires on December 17, 2006.
 
Borrowings under the facility are based on a spread over EURIBOR or LIBOR. The Credit Agreement contains conventional representations and warranties, affirmative covenants, negative covenants and events of default.
 
The obligations of USSK pursuant to the Credit Agreement can be accelerated and declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default. The Credit Agreement defines events of default to include the following: (1) USSK's failure to pay sums when due under the terms of the Credit Agreement and related documents (collectively, the "Finance Documents"), (2) breach of USSK's obligations under the Finance Documents, (3) the making by USSK of a misrepresentation under the Finance Documents, (4) the bankruptcy or insolvency of USSK, (5) the cessation of USSK's business, (6) the revocation of a necessary authorization required for: (a) USSK to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents, (b) USSK to perform its business or (c) the validity or enforceability of the Finance Documents, (7) expropriation of all or a substantial part of USSK's assets, (8) the occurrence of an event that makes it unlawful for USSK to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents, (9) change in the ownership of USSK or one of its material subsidiaries, and (10) any material adverse change in USSK's business, assets, regulation or financial condition that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on USSK's ability to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
The Credit Agreement was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by USS of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act"). USS plans to repatriate approximately USD300 million under the Act and will, therefore, record a related incremental tax liability of approximately $16 million during the fourth quarter of 2005. USS does not intend that there will be any further repatriation under the Act. The funds derived from this repatriation will be used to finance the cost of capital additions and improvements at the Company's steel and iron ore producing facilities located in the United States.
 
USS anticipates that USSK will repay the sums borrowed under the Credit Agreement before the end of 2006 with funds generated from USSK's cash flow. The foregoing statement of belief is a forward-looking statement. A prediction as to USSK's cash flow is subject to uncertainties with respect to (among other things) the market for USSK's products and USSK's operating expenses, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in this forward-looking statement.
 
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete terms contained in the Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
The Credit Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of Registrant
 
The disclosure under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 20, 2005

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
is dated 15 December 2005 :
THIS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and
 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group including the report of independent auditors and accompanying notes for each of its financial years as soon as practicable (and in any event within 30 days from the date when the consolidated financial statements are required to be prepared by law),
 
such financial statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall obtain and promptly renew from time to time all authorisations as may be required under any applicable law or regulation to enable it to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents, or required for the validity or enforceability of any Finance Document, shall comply with the terms of the same and will ensure the availability and transferability of sufficient foreign exchange to enable it to comply with its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:
[            ]
 
 
 
 
 
 
We refer to the Agreement. This is a Transfer Certificate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Transfer Date is confirmed by the Facility Agent as [        ], 200[  ]1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[]                                
date
 
ING BANK N.V.
[            ]
 
Dear Sirs,
 
 
I am an Assistant General Counsel of the Company and am authorized to practice law in the Slovak Republic.
 
Terms defined in the Agreement and not defined otherwise herein shall have the same meanings when used herein as therein.
 
I have examined originals or copies of such corporate records of the Company, governmental authorisations or orders, certificates of public officials and of representatives of the Company and other documents, as I have deemed relevant and necessary as the basis of, and have made all due and necessary enquiries for the purpose of giving, my opinion.
 
In giving this opinion I have also examined:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In giving this opinion I have assumed:
 
 
 
This opinion is limited to the substantive laws of the Slovak Republic currently in force and I have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction. I express no opinion as to matters of fact. This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to me and about which I have no knowledge. I assume that there are no facts that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions set out above and the qualifications set out below, I am of the opinion that, so far as the laws of the Slovak Republic are concerned at the date of this opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The qualifications to which this opinion is subject are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion expresses Slovak legal concepts in English. Such concepts are not always capable of precise expression in English without the extensive comparative law analysis which would not be appropriate for an opinion of this kind.
 
This opinion is given exclusively in connection with the Agreement and for no other purpose. It is strictly limited to the matters set forth herein and no opinion may be inferred or implied beyond that expressly stated herein.
 
This opinion is given solely to the Finance Parties that are the original parties to the Agreement and may not be given to or relied upon, by any other person.
 
Yours faithfully, [            ]
 
Assistant General Counsel
 
 
 
 
[]                                
date
 
ING BANK N.V.
 
Dear Sirs,
 
 
I have acted as legal advisor in the Slovak Republic to the Original Lenders as to the laws of the Slovak Republic in connection with the Agreement between the Company, the Arrangers, the Facility Agent and the Financial Institutions listed in the Agreement.
 
Terms defined in the Agreement and not defined otherwise herein shall have the same meanings when used herein as therein.
 
DOCUMENTS
 
For the purposes of this opinion, I have examined the following documents:
 
 
 
 
 
 
I have not examined any other document entered into by or affecting the Company or any corporate or other records of the Company and have not made any other inquiries concerning it.
 
ASSUMPTIONS
 
In giving this opinion I have assumed:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is limited to the law of the Slovak Republic currently in force and I have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction. I express no opinion on any EU Directives not implemented in the Slovak domestic law. I express no opinion as to matters of fact. This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to me and about which I have no knowledge. I assume that there are no matters of fact that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
I have not advised as to matters of taxation law and practice.
 
OPINION
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions set out above and the qualifications set out below, I am of the opinion that, so far as the laws of the Slovak Republic are concerned at the date of this opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS
 
The qualifications to which this opinion is subject are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL
 
This opinion expresses Slovak legal concepts in English. Such concepts are not always capable of precise expression in English without the extensive comparative law analysis which would not be appropriate for an opinion of this kind.
 
This opinion is given exclusively in connection with the Agreement and for no other purpose. It is strictly limited to the matters set forth herein and no opinion may be inferred or implied beyond that expressly stated herein. It is also given on the basis that we have no obligation to notify any addressee of this opinion of any change in Slovak law or its application after the date of this opinion.
 
This opinion is given solely to the Original Lenders and may not be given to or relied upon by any other person. You may not give copies of this opinion to others without our prior written permission.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
Igor Plka
Advocate
Allen & Overy Bratislava, s.r.o.
 
 
 
 
[]                                         
date
 
ING BANK N.V.
 
Dear Sirs,
 
 
We have acted as English legal advisers to ING Bank N.V. as Facility Agent in connection with the Agreement between the Company, the Arrangers, the Facility Agent and the Financial Institutions listed in the Agreement.
 
Terms defined in the Agreement and not defined otherwise herein shall have the same meanings when used herein as therein.
 
We have examined an executed copy of the Agreement and the opinion of Allen & Overy Bratislava, s.r.o. referred to in Schedule 4 (Conditions Precedent Documents) to the Agreement.
 
We have not examined any other document entered into by or affecting the Company or any corporate or other records of the Company and have not made any other inquiries concerning it.
 
In giving this opinion we have assumed:
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is limited to the substantive laws of England & Wales currently in force and we have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction. We express no opinion as to matters of fact. This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to use and about which we have no knowledge. We assume that there are no facts that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions set out above and the qualifications set out below, we are of the opinion that, so far as the laws of England & Wales are concerned at the date of this opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The qualifications to which this opinion is subject are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is given exclusively in connection with the Agreement and for no other purpose. It is strictly limited to the matters set forth herein and no opinion may be inferred or implied beyond that expressly stated herein.
 
This opinion is given solely to the Original Lenders and may not be given to or relied upon by any other person.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
 
[    ]
 
 
 
 


