FILE:X/X-8K-20051202150536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into Material Definitive Agreements
 
At its November 29, 2005 meeting, the Board of Directors amended the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors to make it a program under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (now the "Deferred Compensation Program for Non-Employee Directors"). The program has been revised to reflect the new deferred compensation requirements under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to make mandatory for each Non-employee Director participant the deferral of at least seventy percent of each participant's annual retainer fee in the form of United States Steel Corporation Common Stock Units. (See Exhibit 10.1)
 
On November 29, 2005, the Compensation & Organization Committee (the "Committee") approved administrative regulations for a Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. All management employees are eligible to participate upon designation by the Committee. The components of the long-term incentive awards include one or more of the following: stock options, restricted stock and performance awards. Stock options have up to a 10-year term and vest one-third on each of the first three anniversaries of the award grant date. Restricted stock awards vest one-third on each of the first three anniversaries of the award grant date and performance awards vest, subject to satisfaction of the performance goals, on the third anniversary of the award grant date. (See Exhibit 10.2)
 
On November 29, 2005, the Compensation & Organization Committee (the "Committee") approved administrative regulations for an Executive Management Annual Incentive Compensation Program under the 2005 Annual Incentive Compensation Plan. Executive management employees designated by the Committee are eligible to participate. The performance measures are return on capital employed, shipment tons, and citizenship measures (safety performance, workforce diversity and environmental improvement). Performance goals for each of the performance measures will be established by the Committee at the commencement of each performance period. (See Exhibit 10.3)
 
The programs are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
 
 
Dated: December 2, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
1. Purpose
 
The United States Steel Corporation Deferred Compensation Program for Non-Employee Directors, a program under the United States Steel Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, is intended to enable the Corporation to attract and retain non-employee Directors and to enhance the long-term mutuality of interest between such Directors and shareholders of the Corporation.
 
2. Definitions
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. The following definitions apply to this Program and to the Deferral Election Forms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Minimum Stock-Based Compensation
 
Each Person who becomes a Participant is required to receive at least 70 percent of his/her annual Retainer Fee in the form of Common Stock Units.
 
4. Deferral Election
 
A deferral election is valid when a Deferral Election Form is completed, signed by the Participant, and received by the Committee or its designee. Deferral elections are governed by the provisions of this section.
 
 
 
 
5. Effect of No Election
 
In the case of a person who does not submit a valid Deferral Election Form on or before the relevant Election Date, seventy percent of such Participant's Retainer Fee will become a Deferred Stock Benefit.
 
6. Deferred Stock Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
7. Distributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Corporation's Obligation
 
 
 
9. Control by Participant
 
A Participant has no control over Deferred Benefits except according to his/her Deferral Election Forms and Beneficiary Designation Form.
 
10. Claims Against Participant's Deferred Stock Benefits
 
A Deferred Stock Account relating to a Participant under this Program is not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so is void. A Deferred Stock Benefit is not subject to attachment or legal process for a Participant's debts or other obligations. Nothing contained in this Program gives any Participant any interest, lien or claim against any specific asset of the Company. A Participant or his/her beneficiary has no rights other than as a general creditor.
 
11. Amendment or Termination
 
This Program may be altered, amended, suspended, or terminated at any time by the Board.
 
12. Notices
 
Notices and elections under this Program must be in writing. A notice or election is deemed delivered if it is delivered personally or if it is mailed by registered or certified mail to the person at his/her last known business address.
 
13. Waiver
 
The waiver of a breach of any provision in this Program does not operate as and may not be construed as a waiver of any later breach.
 
14. Construction
 
This Program is created, adopted, maintained and governed according to the laws of the state of Delaware. Headings and captions are only for convenience; they do not have substantive meaning. If a provision of this Program is not valid or not enforceable, the validity or enforceability of any other provision is not affected. Use of one gender includes all, and the singular and plural include each other.
 
15. Effective Date
 
This Program shall be effective as a program under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as of November 29, 2005.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


