FILE:X/X-8K-20060213164718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into Material Definitive Agreements
 
On February 9, 2006, the Compensation & Organization Committee approved an amendment to the administrative regulations for the Executive Management Annual Incentive Compensation Program under the 2005 Annual Incentive Compensation Plan. The changes to the regulations include more detailed definitions of the performance measures, which are return on capital employed, shipment tons, and citizenship measures (safety performance, workforce diversity and environmental improvement). Other changes to the regulations were primarily in the form of clarifications. (See Exhibit 10.1)
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
 
 
Dated: February 13, 2006

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i. are, in magnitude, each $5 million or greater, and
 
ii. relate to items or events not contemplated by the Corporation's Business Plan for the relevant Performance Period, as such Business Plan is presented to the Board in January of the year relating to the Performance Period, and
 
 
, however, the calculated ROCE resulting from the foregoing exclusions shall be reduced to the extent it exceeds the calculation of return on capital employed under the United States Steel Corporation Short Term Incentive Plan for Non-Union Salaried Employees for the same Performance Period;
provided
 
, further, the forgoing limit shall not limit the Committee's authority to exercise additional downward discretion either in determining the value of ROCE or in calculating any related award."
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
month in which the Performance Period begins and shall end one calendar month prior to the month in which the Performance Period ends (that is, December 1 to November 30). The occurrences of noncompliant environmental emissions relating to production units/facilities at which the method and/or frequency of measuring permit compliance is revised during the current Performance Period in response to governmental requirements shall be excluded (i) from the current target (that is, the number of occurrences during prior Performance Period) and the current Performance Period, and (ii) from the next target (that is, the number of occurrences during current Performance Period) and the next Performance Period. This performance measure is to be adjusted in accordance with Section 4.A.(4) of these Regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


