FILE:X/X-8K-20080129115446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 29, 2008, United States Steel Corporation issued a press release
announcing its financial results for fourth quarter and full-year 2007
. The full text of the press release, together with related unaudited financial information and statistics, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
 
 
 
Dated: January 29, 2008
 
2

United States Steel Corporation
Public Affairs
600 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2800
News
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PITTSBURGH, January 29, 2008 - United States Steel Corporation (NYSE: X) reported fourth quarter 2007 net income of $35 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2007 net income of $269 million, or $2.27 per diluted share, and fourth quarter 2006 net income of $297 million, or $2.50 per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2007 net income was reduced by $117 million, or $0.98 per diluted share, due to
inventory transition effects and a workforce reduction charge
as discussed below.
 
For full-year 2007, U. S. Steel reported net income of $879 million or $7.40 per diluted share, which was reduced by $158 million, or $1.33 per diluted share, from inventory transition effects, a workforce reduction charge, early debt redemption expense and several discrete tax charges. Full-year 2006 net income was $1,374 million, or $11.18 per diluted share.
 
U. S. Steel Chairman and CEO John P. Surma said, This past year was an important period of growth for our company as we completed major acquisitions in both our flat-rolled and tubular businesses and commissioned our new automotive galvanizing line in Europe. We are making steady progress with integration activities on both acquisitions, and we still expect to achieve the anticipated synergies.
 
The company reported fourth quarter 2007 income from operations of $116 million, compared with income from operations of $360 million in the third quarter of 2007 and $341 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. For the year 2007, income from operations was $1,213 million versus income from operations of $1,785 million for the year 2006.
 
Other items not allocated to segments in the fourth quarter of 2007 consisted of a $69 million pre-tax charge related to inventory transition effects following the two major acquisitions and a $57 million pre-tax charge resulting from a voluntary early retirement program at U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK). These items decreased fourth quarter 2007 net income by $117 million, or 98 cents per diluted share. In the third quarter of 2007, a $27 million pre-tax charge related to inventory acquired in the Lone Star acquisition was not allocated to segments, and the tax provision included several discrete charges totaling $11 million. These items reduced third quarter 2007 net income by $28 million, or 23 cents per diluted share. In the fourth quarter of 2006, net interest and other financial costs included a $32 million pre-tax charge related to the early redemption of debt. This item and other items not allocated to segments decreased net income by $33 million or 28 cents per diluted share.
2
Reportable Segments and Other Businesses
 
Management believes segment income from operations is a key measure to evaluate ongoing operating results and performance. U. S. Steels reportable segments and Other Businesses reported segment income from operations of $257 million, or $43 per ton, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with $433 million, or $78 per ton, in the third quarter of 2007 and $414 million, or $85 per ton, in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
Flat-rolleds fourth quarter results were significantly lower than the third quarter and included the operating results of U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) effective October 31
. Flat-rolled operated at 82 percent of capability, including only 60 percent for USSC, as we completed a number of blast furnace repair outages, both planned and unplanned, during the quarter. Lower average realized prices compared to the third quarter primarily reflected a shift in product mix to hot-rolled and semi-finished with the USSC acquisition. In addition, production costs increased due mainly to higher raw material, natural gas, outage and modernization-related costs. USSC added 557,000 tons to fourth quarter Flat-rolled shipments under commercial arrangements in place at the time of acquisition. An operating loss was incurred as unplanned blast furnace outages limited shipments and resulted in high unit production costs.
 
The decrease in fourth quarter 2007 European income from operations compared to the third quarter was mainly due to a decline in euro-based prices as high imports, particularly from China, and high service center inventories pressured spot prices and order rates. Operating rates were curtailed to 79 percent of capability as a result of two planned blast furnace outages. Shipments were reduced by the outages and outbound rail transportation service disruptions late in the quarter. Additionally, raw material and energy costs increased.
3
Fourth quarter Tubular results improved slightly from the third quarter due mainly to higher average realized prices resulting from a change in product mix, and improved overall cost performance. These were partially offset by lower shipments.
 
Additional Fourth Quarter 2007 Items
 
In December 2007, U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers (USW) agreed that U. S. Steel will provide health care and life insurance benefits to certain former National Steel employees and their eligible dependents under a U. S. Steel insurance plan, using funds that had been accrued based on a provision of the 2003 Basic Labor Agreement. Funds totaling $468 million were contributed to our trust for retiree health care and life insurance in December.
 
As a result of this agreement, our other postretirement benefits (OPEB) obligation increased by $314 million. While a funding obligation continues through the August 31, 2008 expiration of the 2003 Basic Labor Agreement, the profit-based expense has been eliminated beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007 as reflected in retiree benefit expenses.
 
Net interest and other financial costs increased by $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to the third quarter, mainly reflecting interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the Stelco acquisition.
 
Our effective tax rate for the year was higher than projected at the end of the third quarter as a result of the inclusion of USSC and a change in the profile of global earnings. As a result, the tax provision in the fourth quarter included approximately $20 million to apply this higher tax rate to income for the prior three quarters.
4
Outlook
 
Commenting on U. S. Steels outlook, Surma said, We expect first quarter results to continue to reflect the volatile cost and pricing dynamics in our three major segments. Overall, we should be in a good position as 2008 progresses to take advantage of favorable supply side conditions, our expanded product and geographic positions in North America, and our new galvanizing line at USSK."
 
For Flat-rolled, we expect improvement from fourth quarter results as shipments and operating rates are expected to increase compared to the fourth quarter, with the inclusion of USSC for the full quarter and the completion of the blast furnace projects.
Our facilities in Canada have been operating much more reliably. Prices are also expected to be higher as increasing spot market prices will be realized throughout the quarter. In addition, customer commitments in place at USSC at the time of the acquisition are being completed and new commitments consistent with U. S. Steels commercial policies are being made. We also expect significant cost increases for raw materials, particularly for purchased scrap, coke and alloys.
 
For U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), we expect higher euro-based prices; and shipments should increase as a result of higher facility availability in the quarter. Escalating raw material costs are expected to partially offset these improvements.
 
Shipments and prices for the Tubular segment are expected to remain in line with the fourth quarter, and semi-finished steel costs will increase
.
 
Other Businesses will reflect the normal unfavorable seasonal effects of the closing of the Great Lakes for taconite pellet shipments.
 
Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to total approximately $940 million.
 
Total costs for pension plans and OPEB are expected to be approximately $200 million in 2008 compared to $266 million in 2007, primarily due to lower pension expense.
5
Volatility in net interest and other financial costs could increase going forward as a result of foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects, primarily on a $1.2 billion intercompany loan to a European affiliate, related to the acquisition of USSC. As this intercompany loan is repaid, our exposure will decrease. Also, we expect to mitigate a portion of this volatility with our normal hedging activity.
 
Common Stock Repurchase Program
 
We repurchased 295,000 shares of U. S. Steel common stock for $30 million during the fourth quarter, bringing total repurchases to 14.3 million shares for $812 million since the repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. As of December 31, 2007, 6.5 million shares remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program.
 
This release
contains forward-looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, capital spending and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both North American operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices, usage and supply disruptions; availability and prices of purchased coke and other raw materials; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could also be affected by import levels, currency fluctuations and actions taken by the U.S. Government. Economic conditions and political factors in Europe and Canada that may affect USSEs and USSCs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, environmental permitting, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures.
Factors that may affect our ability to construct new facilities include levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Factors that may affect the amount of net periodic benefit costs include, among others, changes to laws affecting benefits, pension fund investment performance, liability changes and interest rates. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, cautionary statements identifying important factors, but not necessarily all factors, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements have been included in the Form 10-K of U. S. Steel for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in subsequent filings for U. S. Steel.
 
6
A Statement of Operations (Unaudited), Cash Flow Statement (Unaudited), Condensed Balance Sheet (Unaudited) and Preliminary Supplemental Statistics (Unaudited) for U. S. Steel are attached.
 
The company will conduct a conference call on fourth quarter earnings on Tuesday, January 29, at 3 p.m. EST. To listen to the webcast of the conference call, visit the U. S. Steel web site, www.ussteel.com, and click on the Investors button.
 
For more information on U. S. Steel, visit our web site at www.ussteel.com.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


