FILE:X/X-8K-20080502124519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On April 28, 2008, the Compensation & Organization Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors amended the administrative regulations of the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Program") under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan", approved by the Corporation's shareholders on April 26, 2005). The amendment includes the addition of restricted stock units (RSUs) to the types of awards available for grants under the Program (a type of award permitted under the "Other Stock-Based Awards" section of the Plan). If granted, the RSUs would operate very similar to the restricted stock awards under the Program, except that there would be no voting rights associated with the RSUs. Other changes to the administrative regulations include the allowance of net exercises for future stock option grants and a change to the restricted stock award termination provisions to agree with those originally implemented under the program (pro rata vesting for certain termination events). The Committee also approved new grant form agreements conforming to the revised administrative regulations and making improvements over the prior grant form agreements, primarily to help with administration in foreign jurisdictions. Also, RSU grant form agreements substantially similar to the revised restricted stock grant form agreements were approved.
     Copies of the agreements are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 2, 2008

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
     4. .
Options
 
procedures established by the Stock Plan Officer and valued at Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, or a combination thereof.
 
termination exercise period would be measured for three years following the date of termination, even though the final pro rata tranche does not vest upon termination.
 
then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, that, without limitation, such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
 
appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
 
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Corporation's then outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Corporation's then outstanding voting securities.
 
(Vesting Year 3 in this example), or 1500 shares. This example focuses only on the shares that would vest during Vesting Year 3; however, another 3000 shares would have vested in the aggregate following Vesting Years 1 and 2, for a total of 4500 shares vesting under the Awards 1, 2 and 3. The 1500 shares would vest upon the date of termination.
 
Stock Unit grants which are performance-based shall vest over a period of not less than one year.
 
will begin on the third business day following the public release of the Corporation's earnings for the first quarter of the calendar year during which the Performance Period begins and shall end on the twelfth business day following the public release of the Corporation's earnings for the first quarter of the third calendar year succeeding the calendar year during which the Performance Period begins (the approximate three year period is referred to herein as the "").
Performance Period
     D. .
Performance Vesting
 
 
results in the disposition of more than 50% of the company's total assets during the Performance Period.
 
following the first day of Performance Period 3, the Participant is entitled to vesting of 5/6's of the Performance Period 1 awards, / of the Performance Period 2 awards, and 1/6 of the Performance Period 3 awards (or 1500 shares), subject to the Committee's determination of the payout basis for each Performance Period. That is, the above example assumes that the Committee had determined the Performance Goals had been met at least to the 100% of Target level and that the payout basis was 100% of Target for each period. (Again, the Committee retains its negative discretion with respect to each Performance Period and with respect to each Participant and payments, if any, will be made following the relevant Performance Period.)
1
2

 
Exhibit 10.2
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, herein called the Corporation, grants to the undersigned employee of the employing company identified below (the "Grantee") a Performance Award representing the right to receive a specified number of shares of the common stock of the Corporation ("Shares") set forth below, which right, if payable, shall be paid in Shares:
By my acceptance, I agree that the above-listed Performance Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit B, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time. United States Steel Corporation
     1. The Performance Period for purposes of determining whether the Performance Goal has been met shall be the approximately three-year period determined in accordance with the Administrative Regulations by the Compensation Committee in writing at the time of Grant. The Performance Goal for purposes of determining whether, and the extent to which, the Performance Award will vest is set forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement. The Peer Group for purposes of determining whether the Performance Goal has been achieved is the Peer Group identified by the Compensation Committee in writing at the time of Grant. The Peer Group is subject to adjustment as described in the Administrative Regulations and as the Committee, in its discretion, may additionally set forth at the commencement of the Performance Period in accordance with Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Exhibit A is incorporated by reference herein. Subject to the Administrative Regulations and the provisions of this Agreement, the Performance Award shall become payable, if vested, following the Committee's determination and certification after the end of the Performance Period, as to whether and the extent to which the Performance Goal has been achieved; provided that the Committee retains negative discretion to reduce any and all Performance Awards that would otherwise be payable as a result of performance measured against the Performance Goals. The Committee may not increase the amount payable as a result of performance measured against the Performance Goals.
Grant of Performance Award:
     2.  If the Performance Award is payable, the Corporation shall cause a stock certificate to be issued in the Grantee's name, for no cash consideration, for the number of shares of common stock of the Corporation determined by the Committee to be payable pursuant to paragraph 1 hereof. Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period, and in no event more than two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends.
Payment of Award:
     3. The Grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any portion of the Performance Award and the right to receive Shares, and any attempt to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber any portion of the Shares prior to the payment, if at all, of a stock certificate in the name of the Grantee shall have no effect, regardless of whether voluntary, involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise.
Transferability:
     4.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, in the case of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations) of the Corporation, the Performance Period shall automatically end and the Performance Award shall vest immediately at 100% of Target or, if greater, actual performance over the abbreviated Performance Period, without regard to the Grantee's continued employment or termination thereof.
Change of Control:
     5.  Except as otherwise set forth herein, the Performance Award is forfeited if the Grantee terminates employment with the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") during the Performance Period due to a Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Any and all forfeitures shall be evidenced by written notice to the Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee is a party to an individual Change in Control agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the Performance Award shall not be forfeited if (i) the Grantee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the Employing Company for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Grantee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, (i) the Performance Award will vest in accordance with paragraph 4 hereof if the 409A Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period, and shall be payable as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, or (ii) the Performance Award will vest in accordance with actual performance achieved during the Performance Period, and without any downward discretion by the Committee, if the 409A Change in Control occurs after the end of the Performance Period, and shall be payable within two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which vesting occurs. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, in the event such amounts are conditioned upon a separation from service and not compensation the Grantee could receive without separating from service, then no such payments may be made to Grantee until the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Grantee's termination if grantee is a specified employee under Section 409A of the Code upon his separation from service."
Termination of Employment:
     6. The Grantee must continue as an active employee of an Employing Company during the Performance Period and through the date on which the Committee certifies whether the Performance Goal relating to the Performance Period has been achieved, subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities. A prorated value of the Performance Award will vest based upon the number of complete months worked by the Grantee during the Performance Period, in the event of a Grantee's termination of employment during the Performance Period by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent, to be calculated and delivered following the end of the relevant Performance Period in accordance with paragraph 2 hereof, provided that the relevant Performance Goal for the Performance Period is achieved and subject to the Committee's negative discretion. The remaining value of the Performance Award is forfeited immediately upon the Grantee's termination of employment without consideration or further action being required of the Corporation or the Employing Company. Except as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement, notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment, the Grantee's rights under this Agreement will terminate effective as of the date that the Grantee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Grantee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee's right to receive Shares pursuant to the Performance Award after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Grantee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the Performance Award.
Vesting:
     7.  The Target and Maximum number of Shares are subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Grantee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Grantee.
Adjustments:
     8. This Grant and the issuance, vesting and delivery of Shares are subject to, and shall be administered in accordance with, the provisions of the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Grantee, affect the rights of the Grantee under this Grant in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the Performance Award shall not be considered as affecting the Grantee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Grant specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments:
Page 1
 
     9.  The obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Grantee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended; the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and any other applicable laws. No Shares will be issued or delivered to the Grantee under the Plan unless and until there has been compliance with such applicable laws.
Compliance with Laws:
     10.  The Grant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the Grantee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant:
     11. Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Grantee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Grantee shall pay any Tax-Related Items directly to the Corporation or the Employing Company in cash upon request. In addition, the Grantee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Grantee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Grantee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of Shares issued upon payment of the Performance Award, on the Grantee's behalf and at the Grantee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding from the Shares otherwise issuable to the Grantee the number of Shares with a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date of the taxable event equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum amount of Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied, in accordance with procedures established by the Stock Plan Officer. If the Tax-Related Items are satisfied by reducing the number of Shares issuable upon vesting of the Performance Award, the Grantee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the Performance Award, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Grantee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Grantee's participation in the Plan or Grantee's acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Grantee understands that no Shares shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the vesting of the Performance Award, unless and until the Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
Withholding Taxes:
     12.  Nothing herein shall be construed as giving Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employing Company or affect any right that the Employing Company may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee. Further, by accepting this Performance Award, the Grantee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant:
     13. 
Data Privacy:
The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.
     
The Grantee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all Performance Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Grantee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Grantee's local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Award. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Grantee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the Performance Award or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14.  The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Performance Awards awarded under the Plan, or Shares issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future Performance Awards that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery:
     15.  In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability:
     16.  If the Grantee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language:
     17.  This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law:
     18.  Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings:
Page 2
 
[Exhibit A to the Performance Award grant form]
:
Notes
A-1
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit B includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Performance Award granted to the Grantee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit B have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit B also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Grantee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of April 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Grantee not rely on the information in this Exhibit B as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Grantee vests in the Performance Award or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Grantee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Grantee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Grantee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Grantee's situation.
Finally, if the Grantee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
As a condition of the grant of the Performance Award and the issuance of any Shares upon vesting of the Performance Award, the Grantee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any Shares issued to the Grantee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Grantee will need to sell any Shares issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Grantee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her Shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Grantees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to Shares issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this Performance Award, the Grantee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Grantee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire Shares under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such Shares, the value of the Shares at payment and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying Shares. The Grantee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Grantee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Grantee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Grantee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Grantee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
B-1

 
Exhibit 10.3
Non-Qualified Stock Option granted by United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), to the optionee identified below (the "Optionee").
By my acceptance, I agree that this option (the "Option") is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit A, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time.
     1. : Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and this Agreement, the Corporation agrees that the Optionee has the right to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock of the Corporation set forth in this Option grant for the exercise price stated herein.
Grant
     2. : The Optionee agrees to continue as an active employee of the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") for three years from the date of the Option, subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Optionee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities.
Continuous Employment Requirement
     3. : The Option will become exercisable in annual installments over a three-year vesting period according to the following vesting schedule: 1/3 of the Option shares shall vest upon the 1 anniversary of the date of the Option, provided that the Optionee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary; an additional 1/3 of the Option shares will vest upon the 2 anniversary of the date of the Option, provided that the Optionee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary; and an additional 1/3 of the Option shares will vest on the 3 anniversary of the date of the Option, provided that the Optionee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary, with all fractional Option shares, if any, vesting as whole Option shares upon the latest vesting date. Any portion of the Option that is exercisable may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time during the Option period. In the event of the exercise of the Option in whole or in part, the portion of the Option so exercised shall terminate. The Option period shall begin on the date of the Option and shall end, except as provided in Section 5 hereof, on the first to occur of: (a) ten years thereafter, (b) three years after the date upon which the Optionee ceases to be an employee of an Employing Company by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent, or (c) immediately following termination of employment, if termination of employment is due to Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a prorated number of the Options scheduled to vest during the current Vesting Year will vest on the vesting date for the current Vesting Year based upon the number of complete months worked during the Vesting Year in which the Optionee's termination of employment occurs by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent. The remaining unvested Option grants are forfeited immediately upon the Optionee's termination of employment without consideration or further action required of the Corporation or Employing Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Optionee is a party to an individual Change in Control Agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the unvested Option shares shall not be forfeited if (i) the Optionee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the Employing Company for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Optionee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, all Options shall vest upon the 409A Change in Control and shall remain exercisable until the end of their term.
Vesting and Termination of Employment
st
nd
rd
          Except as provided in the foregoing sentence, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Optionee's termination of employment, the Optionee's right to vest in the Option, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Optionee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Optionee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Optionee's right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Option after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Optionee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Optionee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the Option.
     4. : The exercise price shall be paid in cash or such other form of consideration as permitted in the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, including through the withholding of shares to be acquired upon exercise of the Option, subject to the Stock Plan Officer's establishment of procedures with respect thereto; provided however that, if the Optionee is employed by an Employing Company outside the United States, the Optionee may not pay the exercise price by surrendering shares of Common Stock that he or she already owns or attesting to the ownership of shares of Common Stock. The Corporation reserves the right to restrict the methods of payment of the exercise price if necessary to comply with applicable local law, as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion.
Payment of Exercise Price
     5. : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, (i) all Options vest immediately upon a Change of Control (as used in this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall be as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations), without regard to the Optionee's continued employment or termination thereof, and (ii) if the Optionee's employment is terminated within three years of a Change of Control, whether voluntarily or involuntarily (except for Cause), each vested Option will remain exercisable until the end of its term.
Change of Control
     6. : During the Optionee's lifetime, to the extent the Option is exercisable, the Option may be exercised only by the Optionee or by the Optionee's guardian or legal representative. Upon the Optionee's death, the Option may be transferred by will or by the laws governing the descent and distribution of the Optionee's estate. Otherwise, the Option may not be transferred, pledged or encumbered and, in the event of an attempt to transfer, pledge or encumber it, the Committee may cancel it.
Transferability
Page 1
 
     7. : The number of shares subject to the Option and the Option exercise price per share shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Optionee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Optionee.
Adjustments
     8. : Notwithstanding anything in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, the obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Optionee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any other applicable laws. No shares of Common Stock will be issued or delivered to the Optionee under the Plan unless and until there has been compliance with such applicable laws.
Compliance with Laws
     9. : The Option is not valid unless it is accepted by the Optionee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant
     10. : The Option shall be administered and exercised in accordance with the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Optionee, affect the rights of the Optionee under this Option in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the Option shall not be considered as affecting the Optionee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Agreement specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments
     11. : Neither the grant of the Option nor anything else contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Employing Company to terminate the Optionee's employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause. Further, by accepting this Option, the Optionee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
     12. : Regardless of any action the Corporation or the Employing Company takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains his or her responsibility. Furthermore, the Optionee acknowledges that the Corporation and/or the Employing Company (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including the grant, vesting, or exercise of the Option or the subsequent sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant of the Option or any aspect of the Optionee's participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding Taxes
          Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Optionee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Corporation may notify the Optionee of the amount of Tax-Related Items, if any, required under U.S. federal and, where applicable, state and local or non-U.S. law, and in which case, the Optionee shall, forthwith upon the receipt of such notice, remit the required amount to the Corporation in cash or in accordance with such regulations as the Committee may prescribe. Alternatively, the Optionee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Optionee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of shares issued upon exercise of the Option, on the Optionee's behalf and at the Optionee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding from the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable to the Optionee the number of Shares with a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date of exercise equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum amount of Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied. If the Tax-Related Items are satisfied by reducing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Option, (solely for tax purposes), the Optionee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the Option, notwithstanding that a number of the shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Optionee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Optionee's participation in the Plan or Optionee's purchase of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Optionee understands that no shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to Optionee, notwithstanding the exercise thereof, unless and until the Optionee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
Page 2
 
     
13. 
Data Privacy
: The Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee's participation in the Plan.
          
The Optionee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Optionee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Optionee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Optionee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Optionee's country. The Optionee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Optionee's local human resources representative. The Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Optionee may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option. The Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Optionee's participation in the Plan. The Optionee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Optionee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the Option or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Optionee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14. : The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option awarded under the Plan, or shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future options that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Optionee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery
     14. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     15. : If the Optionee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
     16. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     17. : This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
     18. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement, the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with, and incorporate the terms and conditions required by, Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (together with any Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the date hereof, "Section 409A"). The Corporation reserves the right, to the extent the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, as the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to ensure that this Option qualifies for exemption from, or complies with the requirements of, Section 409A; provided, however, that the Corporation makes no representation that the Option will be exempt from, or will comply with, Section 409A, and makes no undertakings to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to the Option or to ensure that it complies with Section 409A.
Section 409A
     19. : Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings
Page 3
 
EXHIBIT A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Option granted to the Optionee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Optionee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of March 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Optionee not rely on the information in this Exhibit A as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Optionee exercises in the Option or sells shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Optionee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Optionee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Optionee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Optionee's situation.
Finally, if the Optionee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
As a condition of the grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the Option, the Optionee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any shares of Common Stock issued to the Optionee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Optionee will need to sell any shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Optionee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. This restriction applies equally to all shares of Common Stock or other securities issued to the Optionee under the terms of the Plan. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Optionees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to securities issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this Option, the Optionee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Optionee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
Due to current Canadian securities law requirements, notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or the Agreement, permissible methods of payment of the exercise price include: (i) cash, (ii) check and/or (iii) the Company's withholding of shares of Common Stock to be acquired upon exercise of the Option, subject to the Stock Plan Officer's establishment of procedures with respect thereto. Prior to exercising the Option, the Optionee should contact his or her local human resources administrator to confirm the methods of exercise available to the Optionee under local law.
Payment of Exercise Price.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such shares, the value of the shares at exercise and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying shares. The Optionee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of shares of Common Stock under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Optionee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Optionee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Optionee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Optionee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
A-1

 
Exhibit 10.4
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, herein called the Corporation, grants to the undersigned employee of the employing company identified below (the "Grantee") the number of shares of the class of common stock of the Corporation set forth below:
By my acceptance, I agree that the above-listed shares are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit A, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time.
     1. : The Corporation shall issue in the Grantee's name, for no cash consideration, a stock certificate for the number of shares (the "Shares") of common stock of the Corporation set forth in this Restricted Stock Grant. The certificate shall be held in custody by the Corporation and Grantee agrees that a restrictive legend may be placed on the Shares. If and when the restrictions applicable to all or any portion of the Shares are terminated (the Shares are "vested"), a certificate, free of all restrictions, shall be issued in the Grantee's name (or, in the event of the Grantee's death prior to such termination or such issuance, to the Grantee's estate) for the number of vested Shares. The Grantee shall not be entitled to delivery of a certificate for any portion of the Shares until such portion of Shares have vested. During the period prior to vesting or forfeiture of all or any portion of the Shares, the Grantee shall be entitled to vote the Shares and shall receive dividends paid on the Shares.
Grant
     2. : The Grantee shall endorse in blank and return to the Corporation a stock power for the Restricted Stock certificate.
Stock Power Requirement
     3. : The restriction period with regard to the Shares shall commence on the date the Shares are granted. The Grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any portion of the Shares, and any attempt to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber any portion of the Shares prior to termination of restrictions shall have no effect.
Period of Restriction
     4. : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, in the case of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations) of the Corporation, all restrictions shall automatically terminate.
Change of Control
     5. : Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, unvested Shares are forfeited if termination of employment is due to Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Any and all forfeitures of Shares shall be evidenced by written notice to the Grantee. Upon the forfeiture of any Shares, such forfeited Shares shall be transferred to the Corporation without further action by the Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee is a party to an individual Change in Control Agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the unvested Shares shall not be forfeited if (i) the Grantee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Grantee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, all restrictions shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of the 409A Change in Control.
Termination of Employment
     6. : The Grantee must continue as an active employee of an Employing Company for three years from the date of the Grant, subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities. The Shares shall vest as follows: (i) upon the first anniversary of the Date of Grant, one-third of the Shares granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary, (ii) upon the two year anniversary of the Date of Grant, an additional one-third of the Shares granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary, and (iii) upon the three year anniversary of the Date of Grant, the remaining one-third of the Shares granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary. All fractional unvested Shares, if any, resulting from the ratable vesting shall vest as whole Shares upon the latest vesting date. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a prorated number of the unvested Shares scheduled to vest during the current Vesting Year will vest on the date of termination based upon the number of complete months worked during the Vesting Year in which the Participant's termination of employment occurs by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent. The remaining unvested Shares are forfeited immediately upon the Grantee's termination of employment without consideration or further action being required of the Corporation or the Employing Company.
Vesting
     Except as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement, notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment, the Grantee's right to vest in the Shares, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Grantee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Grantee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee's right to receive a certificate for the Shares, free of all restrictions, after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Grantee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the Restricted Stock Grant.
     7. : The number of Shares awarded is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Grantee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Grantee.
Adjustment
     8. : This Grant and the issuance, vesting and delivery of Shares are subject to, and shall be administered in accordance with, the provisions of the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Grantee, affect the rights of the Grantee under this Grant in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the Restricted Stock Grant shall not be considered as affecting the Grantee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Grant specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments
     9. : The obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Grantee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended; the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and any other applicable laws. The Corporation shall have no obligation to deliver a certificate for the Shares, free of all restrictions, unless and until the Grantee has satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 11 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable U.S. and foreign laws.
Compliance with Laws
     10. : The Grant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the Grantee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant
Page 1
 
     11. : Regardless of any action the Corporation or the Employing Company takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains his or her responsibility. Furthermore, the Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation and/or the Employing Company (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Grant, including the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock, the receipt of dividends or the subsequent sale of Shares; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the Restricted Stock Grant or any aspect of the Grantee's participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding Taxes
     Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Grantee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Grantee shall pay any Tax-Related Items directly to the Corporation or the Employing Company in cash upon request and, if permitted by the Corporation, the Grantee may pay the Tax-Related Items by delivering to the Corporation shares of its common stock having a Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of the obligation for Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied. In addition, the Grantee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Grantee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Grantee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of unrestricted Shares to be delivered to the Grantee upon vesting under Section 6 above, on the Grantee's behalf and at the Grantee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding Shares from the Restricted Stock held in custody by the Corporation with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum statutory or other applicable minimum obligation for Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Grantee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Grantee's participation in the Plan or Grantee's acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Grantee understands that no Shares shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions thereon, unless and until the Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
     12. : Nothing herein shall be construed as giving the Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employing Company or affect any right which the Employing Company may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee. Further, by accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
     a. the grant of the Restricted Stock is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future Restricted Stock Grants, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Grants, even if Restricted Stock Grants have been made repeatedly in the past;
     b. all decisions with respect to future Restricted Stock Grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;
     c. the Grantee is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
     d. the Restricted Stock Grant is an extraordinary item which does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Corporation or to the Employing Company, and which is outside the scope of the Grantee's employment contract, if any;
     e. the Restricted Stock Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
     f. in the event that the Employing Company is not the Corporation, the Restricted Stock Grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Corporation; and furthermore, the Restricted Stock Grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with the Employing Company;
     g. the future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
     h. in consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of the Restricted Stock Grant or diminution in value of the Restricted Stock or forfeiture of the Restricted Stock resulting from termination of the Grantee's employment by the Corporation or the Employing Company (for any reason whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws) and the Grantee irrevocably releases the Corporation and the Employing Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen then, by accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such a claim;
     i. it is the Grantee's sole responsibility to investigate and comply with any applicable exchange control laws in connection with the issuance and delivery of Shares pursuant to the Restricted Stock Grant;
     j. the Corporation and the Employing Company are not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor are the Corporation or the Employing Company making any recommendations regarding the Grantee's participation in the Plan or the Grantee's acquisition or sale of the Shares underlying the Restricted Stock Grant; and
     k. the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
     13.  The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy:
     The Grantee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all Restricted Stock Grants or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Grantee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Grantee's local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any unrestricted Shares he or she receives upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Grant. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Grantee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the Restricted Stock Grant or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14.  The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan, or Shares issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Grants that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery:
     15. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     16. : If the Grantee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
     17. : This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
     18. : Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings
Page 2
 
EXHIBIT A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Restricted Stock granted to the Grantee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Grantee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of April 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Grantee not rely on the information in this Exhibit A as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Grantee vests in the Restricted Stock or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Grantee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Grantee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Grantee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Grantee's situation.
Finally, if the Grantee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
As a condition of the grant of Restricted Stock and the issuance of Shares, the Grantee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any Shares issued to the Grantee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Grantee will need to sell any Shares issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Grantee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her Shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Grantees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to securities issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Grantee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire Shares under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such Shares, the value of the Shares at grant and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying Shares. The Grantee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Grantee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Grantee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Grantee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Grantee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
A-1

 
Exhibit 10.5
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, herein called the Corporation, grants to the undersigned employee of the employing company identified below (the "Grantee") the number of shares of the class of common stock of the Corporation set forth below:
By my acceptance, I agree that the above-listed shares are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit A, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time.
     1. : The Corporation shall issue in the Grantee's name, for no cash consideration, a stock certificate for the number of shares (the "Shares") of common stock of the Corporation set forth in this Restricted Stock Grant. The certificate shall be held in custody by the Corporation and Grantee agrees that a restrictive legend may be placed on the Shares. If and when the restrictions applicable to all or any portion of the Shares are terminated (the Shares are "vested"), a certificate, free of all restrictions, shall be issued in the Grantee's name (or, in the event of the Grantee's death prior to such termination or such issuance, to the Grantee's estate) for the number of vested Shares. The Grantee shall not be entitled to delivery of a certificate for any portion of the Shares until such portion of Shares have vested. During the period prior to vesting or forfeiture of all or any portion of the Shares, the Grantee shall be entitled to vote the Shares and shall receive dividends paid on the Shares.
Grant
     2. : The Grantee shall endorse in blank and return to the Corporation a stock power for the Restricted Stock certificate.
Stock Power Requirement
     3. : The restriction period with regard to the Shares shall commence on the date the Shares are granted. The Grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any portion of the Shares, and any attempt to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber any portion of the Shares prior to termination of restrictions shall have no effect.
Period of Restriction
     4. : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, in the case of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations) of the Corporation, all restrictions shall automatically terminate.
Change of Control
     5. : Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, unvested Shares are forfeited if termination of employment is due to Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Any and all forfeitures of Shares shall be evidenced by written notice to the Grantee. Upon the forfeiture of any Shares, such forfeited Shares shall be transferred to the Corporation without further action by the Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee is a party to an individual Change in Control Agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the unvested Shares shall not be forfeited if (i) the Grantee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Grantee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, all restrictions shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of the 409A Change in Control.
Termination of Employment
     6. : The Grantee must continue as an active employee of an Employing Company for the three-year period following the date of the Grant (the "Vesting Period"), subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Regulations to the contrary, the Shares shall vest on the three-year anniversary of the Date of Grant, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if termination of employment during the Vesting Period occurs by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent all unvested Shares will vest on the date of such termination.
Vesting
     Except as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement, notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment, the Grantee's right to vest in the Shares, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Grantee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Grantee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee's right to receive a certificate for the Shares, free of all restrictions, after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Grantee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the Restricted Stock Grant.
     7. : The number of Shares awarded is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Grantee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Grantee.
Adjustment
     8. : This Grant and the issuance, vesting and delivery of Shares are subject to, and shall be administered in accordance with, the provisions of the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Grantee, affect the rights of the Grantee under this Grant in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the Restricted Stock Grant shall not be considered as affecting the Grantee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Grant specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments
     9. : The obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Grantee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended; the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and any other applicable laws. The Corporation shall have no obligation to deliver a certificate for the Shares, free of all restrictions, unless and until the Grantee has satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 11 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable U.S. and foreign laws.
Compliance with Laws
     10. : The Grant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the Grantee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant
Page 1
 
     11. : Regardless of any action the Corporation or the Employing Company takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains his or her responsibility. Furthermore, the Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation and/or the Employing Company (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Grant, including the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock, the receipt of dividends or the subsequent sale of Shares; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the Restricted Stock Grant or any aspect of the Grantee's participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding Taxes
     Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Grantee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Grantee shall pay any Tax-Related Items directly to the Corporation or the Employing Company in cash upon request and, if permitted by the Corporation, the Grantee may pay the Tax-Related Items by delivering to the Corporation shares of its common stock having a Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of the obligation for Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied. In addition, the Grantee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Grantee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Grantee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of unrestricted Shares to be delivered to the Grantee upon vesting under Section 6 above, on the Grantee's behalf and at the Grantee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding Shares from the Restricted Stock held in custody by the Corporation with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum statutory or other applicable minimum obligation for Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Grantee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Grantee's participation in the Plan or Grantee's acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Grantee understands that no Shares shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions thereon, unless and until the Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
     12. : Nothing herein shall be construed as giving the Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employing Company or affect any right which the Employing Company may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee. Further, by accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
     a. the grant of the Restricted Stock is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future Restricted Stock Grants, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Grants, even if Restricted Stock Grants have been made repeatedly in the past;
     b. all decisions with respect to future Restricted Stock Grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;
     c. the Grantee is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
     d. the Restricted Stock Grant is an extraordinary item which does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Corporation or to the Employing Company, and which is outside the scope of the Grantee's employment contract, if any;
     e. the Restricted Stock Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
     f. in the event that the Employing Company is not the Corporation, the Restricted Stock Grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Corporation; and furthermore, the Restricted Stock Grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with the Employing Company;
     g. the future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
     h. in consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of the Restricted Stock Grant or diminution in value of the Restricted Stock or forfeiture of the Restricted Stock resulting from termination of the Grantee's employment by the Corporation or the Employing Company (for any reason whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws) and the Grantee irrevocably releases the Corporation and the Employing Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen then, by accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such a claim;
     i. it is the Grantee's sole responsibility to investigate and comply with any applicable exchange control laws in connection with the issuance and delivery of Shares pursuant to the Restricted Stock Grant;
     j. the Corporation and the Employing Company are not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor are the Corporation or the Employing Company making any recommendations regarding the Grantee's participation in the Plan or the Grantee's acquisition or sale of the Shares underlying the Restricted Stock Grant; and
     k. the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
     13. : The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
     The Grantee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all Restricted Stock Grants or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Grantee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Grantee's local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any unrestricted Shares he or she receives upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Grant. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Grantee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the Restricted Stock Grant or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14. : The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan, or Shares issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Grants that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery
     15. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     16. : If the Grantee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
     17. : This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
     18. : Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings
Page 2
 
EXHIBIT A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Restricted Stock granted to the Grantee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Grantee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of April 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Grantee not rely on the information in this Exhibit A as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Grantee vests in the Restricted Stock or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Grantee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Grantee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Grantee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Grantee's situation.
Finally, if the Grantee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
As a condition of the grant of Restricted Stock and the issuance of Shares, the Grantee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any Shares issued to the Grantee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Grantee will need to sell any Shares issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Grantee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her Shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Grantees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to securities issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this Restricted Stock Grant, the Grantee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Grantee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire Shares under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such Shares, the value of the Shares at grant and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying Shares. The Grantee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Grantee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Grantee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Grantee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Grantee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
A-1

 
Exhibit 10.6
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, herein called the Corporation, grants to the undersigned employee of the employing company identified below (the "Grantee") the number of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") set forth below, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one share of the class of common stock of the Corporation set forth below:
By my acceptance, I agree that the above-listed RSUs are granted as Other Stock-Based Awards under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit A, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time.
     1. : The Corporation shall issue to the Grantee the number of RSUs set forth in this Agreement. Each RSU represents the right to receive one share of the Corporation's common stock (a "Share") on the date the restrictions applicable to the RSU are terminated (the RSU is "vested"). Unless and until the RSUs are vested in the manner set forth in Section 5 below, the Grantee will have no right to settlement of any such RSUs. Prior to settlement of any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Corporation, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Corporation.
Grant
     2. : The restriction period with regard to the RSUs shall commence on the date the RSUs are granted. The Grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any portion of the RSUs, and any attempt to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber any portion of the RSUs prior to termination of restrictions shall have no effect. During the period prior to vesting or forfeiture of all or any portion of the RSUs, the Grantee shall not be entitled to vote the Shares and shall not receive dividends paid on the Shares. The Grantee shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, in a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per Share dividend (if any) paid to shareholders of the Corporation's common stock; provided, however, the dividend equivalents shall not vest in, or be paid to the Grantee unless and to the extent the underlying RSUs vest as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement.
Period of Restriction
     3. : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, in the case of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations) of the Corporation, all restrictions shall automatically terminate.
Change of Control
     4. : Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, unvested RSUs are forfeited if termination of employment is due to Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Any and all forfeitures of RSUs shall be evidenced by written notice to the Grantee. Upon the forfeiture of any RSUs, the Grantee's right to acquire any Shares hereunder will immediately terminate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee is a party to an individual Change in Control Agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the unvested RSUs shall not be forfeited if (i) the Grantee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Grantee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, all restrictions shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of the 409A Change in Control.
Termination of Employment
     5. : The Grantee must continue as an active employee of an Employing Company for three years from the Date of Grant, subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities. The RSUs shall vest as follows: (i) upon the first anniversary of the Date of Grant, one-third of the RSUs granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary, (ii) upon the two year anniversary of the Date of Grant, an additional one-third of the RSUs granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary, and (iii) upon the three year anniversary of the Date of Grant, the remaining one-third of the RSUs granted on the Date of Grant shall vest, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary. All fractional unvested RSUs, if any, resulting from the ratable vesting shall vest as whole RSUs upon the latest vesting date. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a prorated number of the unvested RSUs scheduled to vest during the current Vesting Year will vest on the date of termination based upon the number of complete months worked during the Vesting Year in which the Grantee's termination of employment occurs by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent. For purposes of this agreement, termination shall be construed consistent with a "separation from service" under Section 409A of the Code. The remaining unvested RSUs are forfeited immediately upon the Grantee's termination of employment without consideration or further action being required of the Corporation or the Employing Company.
Vesting
     Except as provided in Section 4 of this Agreement, notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment, the Grantee's right to vest in RSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Grantee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Grantee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee's right to receive Shares pursuant to the RSUs after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Grantee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the RSUs.
     6. : RSUs shall be automatically paid in Shares upon the vesting date of such RSUs and, subject to the other terms of the Plan, Administrative Regulations and this Agreement, the Shares will be issued to the Grantee on each vesting date, provided, further, no payments shall be made later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year which includes the applicable vesting date (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the "short-term deferral" exemption from the application of Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the Code). The Corporation shall have no obligation to issue Shares unless and until the Grantee has satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 11 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. Upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs, one or more certificates, free of all restrictions on transferability or forfeiture except for restrictions required by applicable laws and/or regulations, shall be issued in the Grantee's name (or, in the event of the Grantee's death prior to such termination or such issuance, to the Grantee's estate) for the number of Shares subject to vested RSUs. The Grantee shall not be entitled to delivery of a certificate for any portion of the Shares until the corresponding portion of the RSUs has vested.
Settlement
th
     7. : The number of RSUs awarded is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Grantee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Grantee.
Adjustments
     8. : This Grant, the vesting and delivery of RSUs and the issuance of Shares upon vesting are subject to, and shall be administered in accordance with, the provisions of the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Grantee, affect the rights of the Grantee under this Grant in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the RSUs shall not be considered as affecting the Grantee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Grant specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments
Page 1
 
     9. : The obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Grantee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended; the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and any other applicable U.S. and foreign laws. No Shares will be issued or delivered to the Grantee under the Plan unless and until there has been compliance with such applicable laws.
Compliance with Laws
     10. : The Grant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the Grantee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant
     11. : Regardless of any action the Corporation or the Employing Company takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains his or her responsibility. Furthermore, the Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation and/or the Employing Company (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant, vesting, or settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of Shares; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant of the RSUs or any aspect of the Grantee's participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding Taxes
     Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Grantee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Grantee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Grantee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Grantee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs, on the Grantee's behalf and at the Grantee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding from the Shares otherwise issuable to the Grantee the number of Shares with a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date the restrictions lapse equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum amount of Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied. If the Tax-Related Items are satisfied by reducing the number of Shares issuable upon vesting of the RSUs, the Grantee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Grantee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Grantee's participation in the Plan or Grantee's acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Grantee understands that no Shares shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions on the RSUs, unless and until the Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
     12. : Nothing herein shall be construed as giving the Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employing Company or affect any right which the Employing Company may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee. Further, by accepting this grant of RSUs, the Grantee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
     a) the grant of the RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past;
     b) all decisions with respect to future RSU grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;
     c) the Grantee is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
     d) the RSU is an extraordinary item which does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Corporation or to the Employing Company, and which is outside the scope of the Grantee's employment contract, if any;
     e) the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
     f) in the event that the Employing Company is not the Corporation, the grant of RSUs will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Corporation; and furthermore, the grant of RSUs will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with the Employing Company;
     g) the future value of the Shares underlying the RSUs is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
     h) in consideration of the grant of the RSUs, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of the RSUs or diminution in value of the RSUs or forfeiture of the RSUs resulting from termination of the Grantee's employment by the Corporation or the Employing Company (for any reason whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws) and the Grantee irrevocably releases the Corporation and the Employing Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen then, by accepting this grant of RSUs, the Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such a claim;
     i) it is the Grantee's sole responsibility to investigate and comply with any applicable exchange control laws in connection with the issuance and delivery of Shares pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs;
     j) the Corporation and the Employing Company are not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor are the Corporation or the Employing Company making any recommendations regarding the Grantee's participation in the Plan or the Grantee's acquisition or sale of the Shares underlying the RSUs; and
     k) the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
     13. 
: The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
     
The Grantee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Grantee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Grantee's local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Grantee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the RSUs or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14. : The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to RSUs awarded under the Plan, or Shares issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future RSUs that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery
     15. . It is the intent that the vesting or the payments of RSUs set forth in this Agreement shall either qualify for exemption from or comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein will be interpreted to so comply. The Corporation reserves the right, to the extent the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify this Agreement as may be necessary to ensure that all vesting or settlements provided under this Agreement are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Corporation makes no representation that the vesting or settlement of RSUs provided under this Agreement will be exempt from Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the vesting or settlement of RSUs provided under this Agreement.
Code Section 409A
     16. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     17. : If the Grantee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
     18. : This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
     19. : Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings
Page 2
 
EXHIBIT A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the RSUs granted to the Grantee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Grantee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of March 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Grantee not rely on the information in this Exhibit A as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Grantee vests in the RSUs or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Grantee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Grantee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Grantee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Grantee's situation.
Finally, if the Grantee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the grant of RSUs does not provide any right for the Grantee to receive a cash payment in settlement of the RSUs upon vesting and the RSUs are payable in Shares only.
RSUs Payable Only in Shares.
As a condition of the grant of RSUs and the issuance of Shares upon vesting of the RSUs, the Grantee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any Shares issued to the Grantee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Grantee will need to sell any Shares issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Grantee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her Shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Grantees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to securities issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this RSU, the Grantee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Grantee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire Shares under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such Shares, the value of the Shares at vesting and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying Shares. The Grantee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Grantee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Grantee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Grantee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Grantee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
A-1

 
Exhibit 10.7
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, herein called the Corporation, grants to the undersigned employee of the employing company identified below (the "Grantee") the number of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") set forth below, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one share of the class of common stock of the Corporation set forth below:
By my acceptance, I agree that the above-listed RSUs are granted as Other Stock-Based Awards under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Corporation's Administrative Regulations for the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program (the "Administrative Regulations"), and the Grant Terms and Conditions contained herein (the "Agreement") including the special provisions for my country of residence, if any, attached hereto as Exhibit A, as well as such amendments to the Plan and/or the Administrative Regulations as the Compensation & Organization Committee, or its successor committee (the "Committee"), may adopt from time to time.
     1. : The Corporation shall issue to the Grantee the number of RSUs set forth in this Agreement. Each RSU represents the right to receive one share of the Corporation's common stock (a "Share") on the date the restrictions applicable to the RSU are terminated (the RSU is "vested"). Unless and until the RSUs are vested in the manner set forth in Section 5 below, the Grantee will have no right to settlement of any such RSUs. Prior to settlement of any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Corporation, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Corporation.
Grant
     2. : The restriction period with regard to the RSUs shall commence on the date the RSUs are granted. The Grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any portion of the RSUs, and any attempt to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber any portion of the RSUs prior to termination of restrictions shall have no effect. During the period prior to vesting or forfeiture of all or any portion of the RSUs, the Grantee shall not be entitled to vote the Shares and shall not receive dividends paid on the Shares. The Grantee shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, in a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per Share dividend (if any) paid to shareholders of the Corporation's common stock; provided, however, the dividend equivalents shall not vest in, or be paid to the Grantee unless and to the extent the underlying RSUs vest as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement.
Period of Restriction
     3. : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, and in lieu of application of Section 9 of the Plan, in the case of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 4(F)(1) of the Administrative Regulations) of the Corporation, all restrictions shall automatically terminate.
Change of Control
     4. : Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, unvested RSUs are forfeited if termination of employment is due to Termination without Consent or Termination for Cause. Any and all forfeitures of RSUs shall be evidenced by written notice to the Grantee. Upon the forfeiture of any RSUs, the Grantee's right to acquire any Shares hereunder will immediately terminate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee is a party to an individual Change in Control Agreement (a "CIC Agreement") with the Corporation providing for benefits upon a termination for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or a termination for "Good Reason", then the unvested RSUs shall not be forfeited if (i) the Grantee's employment is terminated during a Potential Change in Control Period either by the employing company identified above or the Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates (each an "Employing Company") for other than "Cause" or "Disability" or by the Grantee for "Good Reason", as such terms are defined in the CIC Agreement and (ii) a 409A Change in Control, as defined in the CIC Agreement, occurs within twenty-four months following the commencement of the Potential Change in Control Period. In such event, all restrictions shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of the 409A Change in Control.
Termination of Employment
     5. : The Grantee must continue as an active employee of an Employing Company for three years from the Date of Grant (the "Vesting Period"), subject to the Employing Company's right to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, performing such duties consistent with his capabilities. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Regulations to the contrary, the RSUs shall vest on the three-year anniversary of the Date of Grant, provided that the Grantee is employed by an Employing Company on such anniversary. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if termination of employment during the Vesting Period occurs by reason of Retirement, death, Disability or Termination with Consent all unvested RSUs will vest on the date of such termination. For purposes of this agreement, termination shall be construed consistent with a "separation from service" under Section 409A of the Code.
Vesting
     Except as provided in Section 4 of this Agreement,, notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of the Plan, the Administrative Regulations or this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment, the Grantee's right to vest in RSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Grantee is no longer actively employed by an Employing Company and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of termination of the Grantee's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee's right to receive Shares pursuant to the RSUs after such termination, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Grantee's active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the RSUs.
     6. : RSUs shall be automatically paid in Shares upon the vesting date of such RSUs and, subject to the other terms of the Plan, Administrative Regulations and this Agreement, the Shares will be issued to the Grantee on each vesting date, provided further, no payment shall be made later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year which includes the applicable vesting date (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the "short-term deferral" exemption from the application of Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the Code). The Corporation shall have no obligation to issue Shares unless and until the Grantee has satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 11 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. Upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs, one or more certificates, free of all restrictions on transferability or forfeiture except for restrictions required by applicable laws and/or regulations, shall be issued in the Grantee's name (or, in the event of the Grantee's death prior to such termination or such issuance, to the Grantee's estate) for the number of Shares subject to vested RSUs. The Grantee shall not be entitled to delivery of a certificate for any portion of the Shares until the corresponding portion of the RSUs has vested.
Settlement
th
     7. : The number of RSUs awarded is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 of the Plan. The Grantee shall be notified of such adjustment and such adjustment shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Grantee.
Adjustments
     8. : This Grant, the vesting and delivery of RSUs and the issuance of Shares upon vesting are subject to, and shall be administered in accordance with, the provisions of the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, as the same may be amended by the Committee from time to time, provided that no amendment may, without the consent of the Grantee, affect the rights of the Grantee under this Grant in a materially adverse manner. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an amendment that affects the tax treatment of the RSUs shall not be considered as affecting the Grantee's rights in a materially adverse manner. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Plan or the Administrative Regulations. In the event of a conflict between the Plan and the Administrative Regulations, unless this Grant specifies otherwise, the Plan shall control.
Interpretation and Amendments
     9. : The obligations of the Corporation and the rights of the Grantee are subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, without limitation, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended; the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and any other applicable U.S. and foreign laws. No Shares will be issued or delivered to the Grantee under the Plan unless and until there has been compliance with such applicable laws.
Compliance with Laws
     10. : The Grant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the Grantee and notice of such acceptance is received by the Stock Plan Officer.
Acceptance of Grant
Page 1
 
     11. : Regardless of any action the Corporation or the Employing Company takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains his or her responsibility. Furthermore, the Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation and/or the Employing Company (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant, vesting, or settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of Shares; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant of the RSUs or any aspect of the Grantee's participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding Taxes
     Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Grantee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation and/or the Employing Company to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Corporation and/or the Employing Company. In this regard, the Grantee authorizes the Corporation and/or the Employing Company, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all applicable Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) withholding from Grantee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Grantee by the Corporation and/or the Employing Company; (2) selling or arranging for the sale of a sufficient number of Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs, on the Grantee's behalf and at the Grantee's direction pursuant to this authorization, through such means as the Corporation may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) equal to the amount required to be withheld; or (3) withholding from the Shares otherwise issuable to the Grantee the number of Shares with a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date the restrictions lapse equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum amount of Tax-Related Items to be so satisfied. If the Tax-Related Items are satisfied by reducing the number of Shares issuable upon vesting of the RSUs, the Grantee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. Finally, the Grantee shall pay to the Corporation or the Employing Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Corporation or the Employing Company may be required to withhold as a result of Grantee's participation in the Plan or Grantee's acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Grantee understands that no Shares shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions on the RSUs, unless and until the Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for Tax-Related Items with respect thereto as provided herein.
     12. : Nothing herein shall be construed as giving the Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of an Employing Company or affect any right which the Employing Company may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee. Further, by accepting this grant of RSUs, the Grantee acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
     13. 
: The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Employing Company and the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
     
The Grantee understands that the Employing Company and the Corporation hold certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Grantee's favor, as the Employing Company and/or the Corporation deems necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Grantee acknowledges and understands that Data may be transferred to any broker as designated by the Corporation and any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere (and outside the European Economic Area), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. The Grantee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Grantee's local human resources representative. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Grantee may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Grantee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. The Grantee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect his or her ability to realize benefits from the RSUs or otherwise participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of his or her refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
     14. : The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to RSUs awarded under the Plan, or Shares issued under the Plan, or participation in the Plan or future RSUs that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.
Electronic Delivery
     15. . It is the intent that the vesting or the payments of RSUs set forth in this Agreement shall either qualify for exemption from or comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein will be interpreted to so comply. The Corporation reserves the right, to the extent the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify this Agreement as may be necessary to ensure that all vesting or settlements provided under this Agreement are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Corporation makes no representation that the vesting or settlement of RSUs provided under this Agreement will be exempt from Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the vesting or settlement of RSUs provided under this Agreement.
Code Section 409A
     16. : In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
     17. : If the Grantee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
     18. : This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to the conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
     19. : Headings of paragraphs and sections used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not part of this Agreement, and must not be used in construing it.
Headings
Page 2
 
EXHIBIT A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Exhibit A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the RSUs granted to the Grantee under the Plan if he or she resides in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Administrative Regulations and/or the Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Exhibit A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Grantee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the laws in effect in the applicable countries as of March 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Grantee not rely on the information in this Exhibit A as the only source of information relating to the consequences of his or her participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Grantee vests in the RSUs or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Grantee's particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Grantee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Grantee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to the Grantee's situation.
Finally, if the Grantee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which he or she is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the grant of RSUs does not provide any right for the Grantee to receive a cash payment in settlement of the RSUs upon vesting and the RSUs are payable in Shares only.
RSUs Payable Only in Shares.
As a condition of the grant of RSUs and the issuance of Shares upon vesting of the RSUs, the Grantee undertakes to only sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any Shares issued to the Grantee under the Plan in accordance with applicable Canadian securities laws. Under current laws, this means that the Grantee will need to sell any Shares issued under the Plan using the services of a broker or dealer that is registered under Canadian provincial or territorial securities legislation. The Grantee will not be permitted to sell, trade or otherwise dispose of his or her Shares through the Company's designated U.S. plan broker, Fidelity Investments, unless such sale, trade or disposal can be executed in accordance with applicable securities laws. As legal requirements may be subject to change, Grantees are encouraged to seek specific advice about their individual situation before taking any action with respect to securities issued to them under the Plan.
Securities Law Commitment on Sale of Shares.
By accepting this RSU, the Grantee expressly agrees that he or she will consult with a personal legal advisor to address any questions that may arise regarding compliance with this requirement. The Grantee understands and agrees that he or she will be liable for any failure to comply with the foregoing provision.
SERBIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Pursuant to the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions (effective July 27, 2006), Serbian residents may freely acquire Shares under the Plan, however, the National Bank of Serbia requires reporting of the acquisition of such Shares, the value of the Shares at vesting and, on a quarterly basis, any changes in the value of the underlying Shares. The Grantee is advised to consult with a personal legal advisor to determine his or her reporting obligations upon the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. The Corporation reserves the right to require the Grantee to report details of the sale of his or her Shares to the Corporation or to follow such other procedures as may be established by the Corporation to comply with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Information.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
The Grantee is required to notify the National Bank of Slovakia with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days after the end of the calendar year (effective from January 1, 2007). The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website as follows: www.nbs.sk. The Grantee should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine which forms the Grantee will be required to submit and when they will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
A-1


