FILE:X/X-8K-20090427170701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 2.02.
On April 27, 2009, United States Steel Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for first quarter 2009, a dividend reduction and additional actions to enhance liquidity.  The full text of the press release, together with related unaudited financial information and statistics, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
Dated:  April 27, 2009
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
PITTSBURGH, April 27, 2009  United States Steel Corporation (NYSE: X) reported a first quarter 2009 net loss of $439 million, or $3.78 per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2008 net income of $290 million, or $2.50 per diluted share, and first quarter 2008 net income of $235 million, or $1.98 per diluted share.
 
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 5 cents per share on U. S. Steel common stock, a decrease of 25 cents per share.  The dividend is payable June 10, 2009, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 13, 2009.
 
 
 
2
Commenting on results, U. S. Steel Chairman and CEO John P. Surma said, Weak customer demand for flat-rolled products, coupled with customers efforts to reduce inventories, has resulted in very low order rates and further downward pressure on prices for our Flat-rolled and U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) segments.  Our tubular operations have also experienced a severe downturn primarily as a result of reduced drilling activity due to lower oil and gas prices, high inventory levels and unprecedented levels of unfairly traded and subsidized tubular imports from China.
 
The company reported a first quarter 2009 loss from operations of $478 million, compared with income from operations of $522 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $266 million in the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
3
 
Other items not allocated to segments in the first quarter of 2009 consisted of a pre-tax net gain of $97 million on the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company for cash proceeds of approximately $300 million, which was largely offset by pre-tax employee severance and net benefit charges of $86 million related to the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) accepted by approximately 500 non-represented employees in the United States.  These items increased net income by $7 million, or 6 cents per diluted share.  Other items not allocated to segments in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased net income by $76 million, or 65 cents per diluted share.  Other items not allocated to segments in the first quarter of 2008 reduced net income by $45 million, or 38 cents per diluted share.
 
Net interest and other financial costs in the first quarter of 2009 included a foreign currency loss that decreased net income by $28 million, or 24 cents per diluted share, due to the remeasurement of an $820 million U.S. dollar-denominated intercompany loan to a European affiliate and related euro-U.S. dollar derivatives activity.  This compares to an immaterial foreign currency gain in fourth quarter 2008 and an after-tax foreign currency gain of $70 million, or 59 cents per diluted share, in first quarter 2008 for these items.
 
The first quarter 2009 effective tax benefit rate of 20 percent is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes.
 
Reportable Segments and Other Businesses
 
Management believes segment income from operations is a key measure to evaluate ongoing operating results and performance.  The segment loss from operations was $457 million, or $142 per ton, in the first quarter of 2009, compared with segment income from operations of $418 million, or $100 per ton, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $327 million, or $48 per ton, in the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
4
 
In the first quarter of 2009, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, U. S. Steel recorded a pre-tax charge of $90 million related to the recognition of estimated future layoff benefits for approximately 9,400 employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at other facilities.
 
Results for Flat-rolled in the first quarter of 2009 decreased substantially from the fourth quarter of 2008.  Flat-rolled operated at 38 percent of raw steel capability in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 45 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, and shipments decreased 24 percent to 2.1 million net tons.  Average realized prices decreased by $90 per net ton to $715 per net ton.  The decline in results also reflected continuing employee and other costs for idled facilities, which totaled approximately $230 million for the first quarter, Flat-rolleds $72 million portion of the accrual for estimated future layoff benefits, reduced favorable effects from liquidations of inventory costed using the last-in first-out (LIFO) method and losses on excess natural gas purchase contracts, which are subject to mark-to-market accounting.  These unfavorable effects were partially offset by reductions in labor costs and spending, lower raw material costs and the absence of any accrual for profit sharing in 2009.
 
Results for USSE in the first quarter of 2009 were comparable to fourth quarter 2008.  Results reflected a $175 per net ton decrease in average realized prices, including foreign currency effects, largely offset by lower raw material costs and reduced spending.  Capability utilization was 55 percent in the first quarter of 2009, compared to 51 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
First quarter 2009 Tubular results decreased significantly compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 due to lower shipments and average realized prices, idled facility carrying costs, which totaled approximately $20 million for the first quarter, and Tubulars $18 million portion of the accrual for estimated future layoff benefits.
 
 
 
5
 
First quarter 2009 results for Other Businesses decreased to a loss of $3 million from income of $21 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of a number of real estate transactions that were closed in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
Outlook
 
Looking ahead to the second quarter, Surma said, We continue to face an extremely difficult global economic environment.  We expect an operating loss in the second quarter as our order book remains at low levels and idled facility carrying costs continue to be incurred.  Extremely short lead times coupled with the uncertainty surrounding financial markets and key steel-consuming industries such as automotive and construction make it difficult to forecast beyond a very short horizon.
 
Second quarter 2009 Flat-rolled results are expected to improve slightly as compared to the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to the accruals in the first quarter for estimated future layoff benefits and losses on excess natural gas purchase contracts.  These effects are expected to be offset by lower average realized prices and additional idled facility carrying costs.  Shipments are expected to be in line with the first quarter of 2009.
 
We expect an operating loss for USSE in the second quarter of 2009, with improvement
compared to the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to lower raw material costs, sales of CO2emissions allowances and efficiencies resulting from consolidating European raw steel production to U. S. Steel Kosice in early April.  These items are expected to be partially offset by lower average realized prices.  Shipments should be in line with the first quarter level.
 
 
We expect an operating loss for Tubular in the second quarter of 2009 due to a continuing decrease in shipments and lower average realized prices as compared to the first quarter of 2009, reflecting lower oil and gas exploration, high inventory levels and the surge of unfairly traded and subsidized product from China.
 
 
 
6
 
Other Matters
 
In light of the very challenging and uncertain conditions in each of our major business segments, we continue to implement actions to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position us for growth over the long term.  Several of these actions are summarized below, and are in addition to the numerous actions we have already taken as described on page 12 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, including idling certain facilities and consolidating production at others, implementing employee layoffs and early retirement programs and reducing planned capital spending.
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
This release contains forward-looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, capital spending, planned public offerings and amendments to our $750 million credit facility, our term loans and our $500 million receivables purchase facility.  U. S. Steel has been, and we expect will continue to be, negatively impacted by the current global credit and economic problems.  U. S. Steel cannot control or predict the extent and timing of economic recovery.  When a recovery occurs, U. S. Steel will incur costs related to the restart of idled facilities, but we cannot accurately forecast the amount of such costs.  Other more normal factors that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both North American operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas and electricity prices, usage and availability; raw materials and transportation prices and availability; international trade developments; the impact of fixed prices in energy and raw materials contracts (many of which have terms of one year or longer) as compared to short-term contract and spot prices of steel products; changes in environmental, tax, pension and other laws; the terms of collective bargaining agreements; employee strikes or other labor issues; power outages; and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments.  Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies.  Economic conditions and political factors in Europe and Canada that may affect USSEs and U. S. Steel Canadas results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, government instability, political unrest, regulatory changes, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures.  Factors that may affect our ability to construct new facilities include levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects.  Completion of the amendments to our credit facility, term loans and receivables purchase facility is subject to completion of financing documentation and the lenders review of the collateral.  Completion of the offerings of common stock and senior convertible notes is subject to normal conditions for public offerings.  In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, cautionary statements identifying important factors, but not necessarily all factors, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements have been included in U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in subsequent filings for U. S. Steel.
 
 
 
9
 
A Statement of Operations (Unaudited), Cash Flow Statement (Unaudited), Condensed Balance Sheet (Unaudited) and Preliminary Supplemental Statistics (Unaudited) for U. S. Steel are attached.
 
The company will conduct a conference call on first quarter earnings on Tuesday, April 28, at 7:30 a.m. EDT.  To listen to the webcast of the conference call, visit the U. S. Steel web site, www.ussteel.com, and click on the Investors button.
 
For more information on U. S. Steel, visit our web site at .
www.ussteel.com
 
 
 
 
 
CASH FLOW STATEMENT (Unaudited)
 
 
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 


