FILE:X/X-8K-20100811135245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft,ING Bank N.V., Slovensk sporitea, a.s., Citibank Europe plc and HSBC Bank plc  The Credit Agreement provides for a EUR 200,000,000 revolving unsecured credit facility that expires on August 6, 2013. The Credit Agreement contains conventional representations and warranties, affirmative covenants, negative covenants and events of default.
On August 6, 2010, U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o. (USSK), a company organized under the laws of the Slovak Republic and a wholly-owned subsidiary of United States Steel Corporation, entered into a multicurrency revolving credit facility agreement (the Credit Agreement) with
 
.
USSKs EUR 200,000,000 Credit Facility dated July 2, 2008.
The Credit Agreement replaces
A copy of the Credit Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
The disclosure under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
Dated:  August  11, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is dated 6 August, 2010
THIS AGREEMENT
 
:
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as lead arrangers (in this capacity the , and together with the Mandated Lead Arrangers the );
Lead
Arrangers
Arrangers
 
 
1
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
In this Agreement:
 
means the Arrangers or the Facility Agent.
Administrative Party
 
means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
 
mean a person's present and future business, undertaking, properties, assets and revenues (including without limitation , any uncalled capital).
Assets
 
means the period from and including the date of this Agreement until (but excluding) the Final Maturity Date.
Availability Period
 
means the amount (if any) that a Lender is entitled to receive under Clause 23.3 ().
Break Costs
Break Costs
 
means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London, in New York and in Bratislava and:
Business Day
 
 
 
means the lawful currency for the time being of Canada.
Canadian Dollar
 
 
means the National Bank of Slovakia.
Central Bank
 
means the "centre of main interests" of the Company for the purposes of the Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000 of 29th May, 2000.
Centre of Main Interests
 
means:
Commitment
 
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
 
2
 
means the lawful currency for the time being of the Czech Republic.
Czech Koruna
 
means:
Default
 
 
 
means any Lender:
Defaulting Lender
 
 
 
unless, in case of paragraph (a) of this definition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
and which (in either such case) is not caused by, and is beyond the control of, the Lender whose operations are disrupted;
 
and the respective payment is made within 10 Business Days of its due date; or
 
 
means a Lender:
Downgraded Lender
 
 
 
3
 
 
whereas, for the avoidance of doubt, if a Lender is not rated by any agency specified in paragraph (i) above, it shall not be considered a Downgraded Lender pursuant to this paragraph (a) until it receives a rating non-compliant with paragraph (ii) above; or
 
 
means the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, to which the following definitions apply:
ERISA
 
means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
- Code
 
means any person treated as a single employer with the Company for the purpose of section 414 of the Code.
- ERISA
Affiliate
 
means an employee benefit plan as defined in section 3(3) of ERISA:
- Plan
 
 
 
means:
- Reportable Event
 
 
 
means any place of operations where the Company (as applicable) carries on non-transitory economic activity with human means and goods, for the purposes of the Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000 of 29th May, 2000.
Establishment
 
means for a Term of any Loan or overdue amount denominated in euro:
EURIBOR
 
 
 
as of 11.00 a.m. on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in euro for a period comparable to the Term of that Loan.
 
4
 
oror means the single currency of the Participating Member States.
euro
EUR
 
means an event specified as such in Clause 19 ().
Event of Default
Default
 
means the credit facility made available under the Existing Facility Agreement A.
Existing Facility A
 
means the credit facility made available under the Existing Facility Agreement B.
Existing Facility B
 
means the facility agreement on EUR 200,000,000 credit facility dated 2 July 2008 and entered into between () the Company as borrower, COMMERZBANK Aktienges. as mandated lead arrangers and lenders, Citibank NA, Bahrain and HSBC as lead arrangers, and ING Bank N.V., London Branch as facility agent.
Existing Facility
Agreement A
inter alia
ellschaft, poboka zahraninej banky, Bratislava, ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej banky and Slovensk sporitea, a.s
Bank plc, poboka zahraninej banky
 
borrower, Citibank Europe plc, poboka zahraninej banky, ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej bankySlovensk sporitea, a.s.as arrangers and Citibank Europe plc, poboka zahraninej banky as facility agent
Existing Facility
 
Agreement B
means the facility agreement on EUR 40,000,000 credit facility dated 8 October 2009 and entered into between (
inter alia
) the Company as
, and
 
.
 
means the credit facility made available under this Agreement.
Facility
 
means the office(s) notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent:
Facility Office
 
 
 
as the office(s) through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
 
means any letter entered into by reference to this Agreement between one or more Administrative Parties and the Company setting out the amount of certain fees referred to in this Agreement.
Fee Letter
 
means the third anniversary of the date of this Agreement.
Final Maturity Date
 
means:
Finance Document
 
 
 
 
 
means a Lender or an Administrative Party.
Finance Party
 
means, without duplication, Indebtedness (whether being principal, premium, interest or other amounts) for or in respect of:
Financial Indebtedness
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
means, in relation to the Group, those assets treated as Fixed Assets (e.g. property, plant and equipment) for the purposes of the Latest Accounts.
Fixed Assets
 
means the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Group
 
of any other person, means an entity in respect of which that other person is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
 
means EURIBOR, LIBOR, or PRIBOR.
IBOR
 
means:
Increased Cost
 
 
 
 
that is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or its Holding Company but only to the extent attributable to that Finance Party having entered into any Finance Document or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
 
means any obligation for the payment or repayment of money in whatever currency denominated, whether as principal or as surety and whether present or future, actual, deferred or contingent.
Indebtedness
 
has the meaning given to it in Clause 9.2 ().
Interest Payment Date
Payment of Interest
 
means the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group last delivered to the Facility Agent under Clause 17.2 ().
Latest Accounts
Financial information
 
means:
Lender
 
 
6
 
 
means for a Term of any Loan or overdue amount denominated in US Dollars or Canadian Dollars:
LIBOR
 
 
 
as of noon on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in US Dollars or Canadian Dollars (as applicable) for a period comparable to the Term of that Loan.
 
means, unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, the principal amount of each borrowing under this Agreement or the principal amount outstanding of that borrowing.
Loan
 
means, at any time, Lenders:
Majority Lenders
 
 
 
 
means the cost as reasonably determined by a Lender, imputed to that Lender of compliance with:
Mandatory Cost
 
 
 
means 2.50 per cent. per annum.
Margin
 
means Regulations U and X issued by the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System.
Margin Regulations
 
has the meaning given to it in the Margin Regulations.
Margin Stock
 
means the last day of the Term of a Loan.
Maturity Date
 
means a member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency under the legislation of the European Community for Economic Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
 
means a party to this Agreement.
Party
 
7
 
means any of the following:
Permitted Disposal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means:
Permitted Merger
 
 
 
 
means any of the following:
Permitted Security Interest
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
means for a Term of any Loan or overdue amount denominated in Czech Koruna:
PRIBOR
 
 
 
as of 11.00 a.m. on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in Czech Koruna for a period comparable to the Term of that Loan.
 
means:
Pro Rata Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
means:
Rate Fixing Day
 
 
 
or such other day as the Facility Agent determines is generally treated as the rate fixing day by market practice in the relevant interbank market.
 
means the Facility Agent, and any other bank or financial institution appointed as such by the Facility Agent under this Agreement.
Reference Banks
 
means Taxes imposed or levied by the Republic (or any political subdivision or taxing authority of the Republic) or by any other jurisdiction from or through which any payment is made by the Company under the Finance Document, but excludes Taxes imposed by the Republic which are so imposed as a direct consequence of the relevant Finance Party maintaining a permanent establishment in the Republic and of that establishment being directly involved in any Loan.
Relevant Taxes
 
10
 
means the representations and warranties that are then made or deemed to be repeated under Clause 16.21 ().
Repeating Representations
Times for making representations and warranties
 
means the Slovak Republic.
Republic
 
means a request for a Loan, substantially in the form of Schedule 3 ().
Request
Form of Request
 
means one or more Loans:
Rollover Loan
 
 
 
 
 
means, for the relevant currency and Term:
Screen Rate
 
 
 
 
provided that if the relevant page is replaced or the service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent (after consultation with the Company and the Lenders) may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate.
 
means any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge (including a floating charge), assignment (whether conditional or otherwise), hypothecation or security interest or any other agreement or arrangement having the effect of conferring security, or any other arrangement having a similar economic effect including (without limitation) total transfer, 'flawed asset', sale and repurchase, buyback or conditional transfer arrangements.
Security Interest
 
means a Defaulting Lender or a Downgraded Lender.
Specified Lender
 
means an entity of which a person has direct or indirect control or owns directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent. of the voting capital or similar right of ownership and for this purpose means the power to direct the management and the policies of the entity whether through the ownership of voting capital, by contract or otherwise.
Subsidiary
control
 
means the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system which utilises a single shared platform and which was launched on 19 November 2007.
TARGET2
 
means any day on which TARGET2 is open for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET Day
 
11
 
means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any related penalty or interest).
Tax
 
means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
 
means a payment made by the Company to a Finance Party in any way relating to a Tax Deduction or under any indemnity given by the Company in respect of Tax under any Finance Document.
Tax Payment
 
means each period determined under this Agreement by reference to which interest on a Loan or an overdue amount is calculated.
Term
 
means the aggregate of the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Total Commitments
 
means a certificate, substantially in the form of Schedule 4 (), with such amendments as the Facility Agent may approve or reasonably require or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Company.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate
 
means the United Kingdom.
U.K.
 
or mean the lawful currency for the time being of the United States of America.
US Dollars
USD
 
means the generally accepted accounting principles and practices in the United States of America in effect from time to time.
USGAAP
 
means United States Steel Corporation, currently a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, U.S.A., Delaware registration number 3396733.
U. S. Steel
 
means each date on which the Facility is utilised.
Utilisation Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement and any other Finance Document (except if expressly stipulated otherwise in the relevant Finance Document), a reference to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Company a revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Commitments.
 
 
Unless all the Finance Parties agree otherwise:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Loan may be used for general corporate purposes.
 
 
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the utilisation of the Facility.
 
 
 
A Request may not be given until the Facility Agent has notified the Company and the Lenders that it has received all of the documents and evidence set out in Schedule 2 () in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent.  The Facility Agent must give this notification to the Company and the Lenders promptly upon being so satisfied.
Conditions precedent documents
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Request may not be made in any case where the Company is in default under the Existing Facility B of any payment obligation (or payment obligations in aggregate) in an amount equal to or in excess of EUR 500,000 or its equivalent in other currencies (a ).  Following a Drawstop Event, no further Requests may be made until the Facility Agent notifies the Company in writing that it may submit a Request. The Facility Agent shall so notify the Company promptly after the Facility Agent receives evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that such default or defaults: (i) are no longer outstanding; or (ii) are waived in accordance with the Existing Facility Agreement B; or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii), whereby, following such waivers (if any), such default or defaults (if any) are in aggregate in an amount less than EUR 500,000 or its equivalent in other currencies.
Drawstop Event
 
 
Unless the Facility Agent agrees, a Request may not be given if, as a result, there would be more than five Loans outstanding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Request will not be regarded as having been duly completed unless:
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
Only one Loan may be requested in a Request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Clause:
 
means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency in the London foreign exchange market with euros as of noon on a particular day.
Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange
 
of a Loan or part of a Loan means:
euro
amount
 
 
 
means any currency (other than euros) in which a Loan may be denominated under this Agreement.
Optional Currency
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Facility Agent must give notice to the Company to that effect promptly and in any event before noon on that day.
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
The equivalent in euros of a Loan or part of a Loan in an Optional Currency for the purposes of calculating:
 
 
 
 
 
 
is its euro amount.
 
 
The Facility Agent must notify the Lenders and the Company of the relevant euro amount (and the applicable Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange) promptly after they are ascertained.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that nothing in this paragraph (b) shall have the effect or be deemed to have the effect of converting the whole of the Loan or any part of it into a term loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
that any Lender should be licensed, qualified or otherwise entitled to carry on business in the Republic;
 
 
 
 
and the occurrence of any of the foregoing causes a Lender (acting reasonably) to believe it is materially prejudiced thereby then:
 
 
 
except that paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this Clause 8.1 do not apply to any Lender acting through its Facility Office or having a permanently established office or branch in the Republic.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
A shall occur if:
Change of Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
means: (i) shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person; or (ii) any warrants, options or other rights to acquire such shares or interests.
Equity Interests
 
as applied to the stock of any corporation means the total voting power represented by all outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation.
Voting Power
 
as applied to the stock of any corporation means stock of any class or classes (however designated) having ordinary voting power for the election of the directors of such corporation, other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
The Commitment of each Lender will be automatically cancelled at the close of business on the last day of the Availability Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Company may, while the requirement continues, give notice to the Facility Agent requesting prepayment and cancellation in respect of that Lender.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any voluntary prepayment of a Loan under Clause 8.3 () may be re-borrowed on the terms of this Agreement. Any other prepayment of a Loan may not be re-borrowed.
Voluntary prepayment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for its Term is the percentage rate per annum equal to the aggregate of the applicable:
 
 
 
 
 
Except where it is provided to the contrary in this Agreement, the Company must pay accrued interest on each Loan made to it on the last day of each Term and also, if the Term is longer than six months, on the dates falling at six-month intervals after the first day of that Term (each an ).
Interest Payment Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the expiry of the first Term for that overdue amount, the rate on the overdue amount will be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 9.3.
 
 
 
The Facility Agent must promptly notify each relevant Party of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
24
 
 
 
The Company acknowledges and confirms for the benefit of the Finance Parties who are banks or branches of foreign banks incorporated in the Slovak Republic that it has been informed about the amount of the annual percentage rate of interest of the Loan and on the fees that the Company shall pay under the Finance Documents in compliance with section 37(2) of the Slovak Act No. 483/2001 Coll. as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Term would otherwise overrun the Final Maturity Date, it will be shortened so that it ends on the Final Maturity Date in which case the Company will have no obligation to pay Break Costs or other costs arising from the shortening.
 
 
The Facility Agent must notify each relevant Party of the duration of each Term promptly after ascertaining its duration.
 
 
 
If IBOR is to be calculated by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a rate by noon on a Rate Fixing Day, the applicable IBOR will, subject as hereinafter provided, be calculated on the basis of the rates of the remaining Reference Banks.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments by the Company under the Finance Documents shall be made without any deduction and free and clear of and without deduction for or on account of any Taxes, except to the extent that the Company is required by law to make payment subject to any Taxes.  If any Relevant Tax or amounts in respect of any Relevant Tax must be deducted from any amounts payable or paid by the Company, or paid or payable by the Facility Agent to a Lender, under the Finance Documents, the Company shall, subject to Clause 12.4 (), pay such additional amounts as may be necessary to ensure that the relevant Lender receives a net amount equal to the full amount which it would have received had payment not been made subject to Relevant Tax.
Exception to the gross-up
 
 
All Taxes required by law to be deducted or withheld by the Company from any amounts paid or payable under the Finance Documents shall be paid by the Company when due and the Company shall, within 15 days of receipt of evidence of the payment being made, deliver the same to the Facility Agent.
 
 
If the Company pays a Tax Payment under Clause 12.1 () for the account of a Lender, and the Lender effectively obtains, or could have effectively obtained by taking reasonable action (in which case the Lender shall be treated as actually having obtained), a refund of Tax, or credit against Tax, by reason of that Tax Payment (a ), then the Lender shall reimburse to the Company such amount as the Lender shall reasonably determine to be the proportion of the Tax Credit as will leave the Lender (after that reimbursement) in no better or worse position than it would have been in if the Tax Payment had not been required.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Lender may choose not to make or to limit the amount or alter the timing of any Tax Credit if to do otherwise would result in a material adverse effect to the Lender or on its relationship with the relevant Tax authority.  Upon reasonable request from the Company, the Lender shall provide the Company with a certification concerning whether or not a Tax Credit was obtained or was attempted to be obtained by the Lender as well as reasonable detail concerning the amount of the Tax Credit.  No Finance Party is obliged to disclose any information regarding its Tax affairs or computations to any other person.
Gross-up
Tax Credit
 
26
 
 
 
The Company is not required to pay an additional amount for the account of a Lender under Clause 12.1 ():
Gross-up
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company must pay and indemnify each Finance Party against any stamp duty, registration or other similar Tax payable in connection with the entry into, performance or enforcement of any Finance Document, except for any such Tax payable in connection with the entry into a Transfer Certificate.
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
Except as hereinafter provided in this Clause, the Company must pay to a Finance Party the amount of any Increased Cost incurred by that Finance Party or its Holding Company as a result of:
 
 
 
Each Finance Party agrees to notify the Company promptly upon becoming aware that this Clause 13.1 applies.
 
 
The Company need not make any payment for an Increased Cost to the extent that the Increased Cost is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If circumstances arise that would, or would on the giving of notice, result in:
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
then, without limiting the obligations of the Company under this Agreement and without prejudice to the terms of Clauses 12 (), 13 () and 8 (), the relevant Lender shall, in consultation with the Company, take such reasonable steps as may be open to it to mitigate or remove the relevant circumstance, including (without limitation) changing its Facility Office to one in another jurisdiction or the transfer of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to another person, unless to do so might (in the reasonable opinion of the Lender) be materially prejudicial to it.
Taxes
Increased Costs
Prepayment and Cancellation
 
 
 
Unless a Finance Document specifies that payments under it are to be made in another manner, all payments by a Party (other than the Facility Agent) under the Finance Documents must be made to the Facility Agent to its account at such office or bank:
 
 
 
as it may notify to that Party for this purpose by not less than ten Business Days' prior notice.
 
 
Payments under the Finance Documents to the Facility Agent must be made for value on the due date at such times and in such funds as the Facility Agent may acting reasonably specify to the Party concerned as being customary at the time for the settlement of transactions in the relevant currency in the place for payment.
 
 
 
 
 
as it may notify to the Facility Agent for this purpose by not less than ten Business Days' prior notice.
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments made by the Company under the Finance Documents must be calculated and made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Finance Document does not provide for when a particular payment is due, that payment will be due 30 days after receipt by the Company of a claim (accompanied by, if available, separate invoices) signed on behalf of the relevant Finance Party specifying the amount due, the provision of the Finance Document under which the Companys liability to pay arises and setting out in reasonable detail a calculation of the amount due.
 
 
 
The Company makes the representations and warranties set out in this Clause 16 () to each Finance Party.
Representations and warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
It has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise, the execution, delivery and performance of the Finance Documents to which it is or will be a party and the transactions contemplated by those Finance Documents.
 
 
Each Finance Document to which it is a party:
 
 
 
save that enforcement of the Companys obligations under the Finance Documents may be affected by insolvency, bankruptcy and similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
 
 
The execution, delivery and performance of the Finance Documents to which it is or will be a party by it will not:
 
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Default is outstanding.
 
 
All authorisations and other requirements of governmental, judicial and public bodies and authorities required by any member of the Group or advisable in connection with the execution, delivery, performance, validity and enforceability of the Finance Documents have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect.
 
 
Except to the extent as disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent:
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, it has valid leases or good and marketable title to all its material Fixed Assets which are reflected in the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Group delivered to the Facility Agent under Clause 16.15 (), subject to any disposal permitted under Clause 18.6 () and to no Security Interest securing Financial Indebtedness over such Fixed Assets, except any Permitted Security Interest.
Financial statements
Disposals
 
 
The borrowing of the full amount available under this Agreement will not cause any limit on its borrowing or other powers or on the exercise of such powers by its board of directors whether imposed by the Company's Articles of Association or similar document or by statute, regulation, or agreement, to be exceeded.
 
32
 
 
 
Subject to any general provisions of law with respect to immunity of certain assets from attachment and from execution, referred to in any legal opinion required under this Agreement, it is not entitled to claim immunity from suit, attachment, enforcement or other legal process in the Republic.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No member of the Group has created any notarial deed (as referred to in section 41(2) of the Slovak Act No. 233/1995 Coll. as amended or section 274(e) of the Slovak Act No. 99/1963 Coll., in its wording up to 31 August 2005 respectively) in relation to any Financial Indebtedness.
 
 
Its audited consolidated financial statements most recently delivered to the Facility Agent (which, at the date of this Agreement, are the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009):
 
 
 
except, in each case, as disclosed to the contrary in those financial statements.
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Plan of the Company and of each ERISA Affiliate of the Company complies in all material respects with all applicable requirements of law and regulation.  No Reportable Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, and no steps have been taken to terminate any Plan. Neither the Company nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has had a complete or partial withdrawal from any Multiemployer Plan (as defined by ERISA) or initiated any steps to do so.
 
 
Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
 
 
Its Centre of Main Interests is situated in its jurisdiction of incorporation and it has no Establishment in any other jurisdiction.
 
 
Since 31 December 2009, there has not been any material adverse change in the business, Assets, regulation or financial condition of the Company that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause 17 () remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as any amount is or may be outstanding under any Finance Document.
Information Covenants
 
 
The Company shall furnish to the Facility Agent in sufficient copies for all Lenders:
 
 
and
 
the annual audited consolidated financial statements of the Group including the report of independent auditors and accompanying notes for each of its financial years as soon as practicable (and in any event within 210 days after the end of each of its financial years),
 
such financial statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
as soon as practicable (and in any event within 60 days after the end of the relevant quarter) certified by the chief financial officer (or equivalent) of the Company; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
The Company shall obtain and promptly renew from time to time all authorisations as may be required under any applicable law or regulation to enable it to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents, or required for the validity or enforceability of any Finance Document, shall comply with the terms of the same and will ensure the availability and transferability of sufficient foreign exchange to enable it to comply with its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall effect and maintain such insurance over and in respect of its Assets and business covering such risks and in such amounts as U. S. Steel maintains from time to time with respect to other similar steel-making facilities owned by U. S. Steel, subject to such deductibles and other forms of self-insurance as from time to time are generally applicable to such other steel-making facilities provided such coverage is available to the Company on similar or better terms.
 
 
The Company shall procure that its obligations under the Finance Documents do and will constitute its direct, unconditional, unsecured, unsubordinated and general obligations and do and will rank at least with all other present and future unsecured and unsubordinated Financial Indebtedness issued, created or assumed by it other than amounts which are afforded priority by applicable law.
pari passu
 
 
The Company shall not without the prior consent of the Facility Agent in writing, create, assume or permit to exist any Security Interest over all or any of its Assets to secure Financial Indebtedness other than a Permitted Security Interest.
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not, without the prior consent of the Facility Agent in writing, enter into any merger or other arrangement of a similar nature other than a Permitted Merger.
 
 
Except with the prior consent of the Facility Agent in writing, the Company shall not make or threaten to make any substantial change in its business as conducted on the date of this Agreement.
 
 
Except to the extent disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, the Company shall comply with applicable Environmental Law except where failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents.  For this purpose, means:
Environmental Law
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not, and the Company shall procure that no member of the Group shall incur any Financial Indebtedness other than:
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not and the Company shall procure that no other member of the Group will, create any notarial deed (as referred to in section 41(2) of the Slovak Act No. 233/1995 Coll., as amended) in relation to any Financial Indebtedness.
 
 
The Company may not:
 
 
 
 
The Company must not cause or allow its registered office or Centre of Main Interests to be in, or maintain an Establishment in, any jurisdiction other than its jurisdiction of incorporation.
 
 
 
Each of the events set out in Clauses 19.2 () to 19.10 () (both inclusive) is an Event of Default (whether or not caused by any reason whatsoever outside the control of the Company or any other person).
Non-payment
Ownership of the Company
 
 
The Company does not pay on the due date any amount payable by it under the Finance Documents at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable and (if the failure to pay is caused solely by technical or administrative error) it is not remedied within five Business Days of its due date.
 
 
The Company fails to comply with any of its obligations under the Finance Documents (other than those referred to in Clause 19.2 ()) and the failure to comply (if it is capable of remedy) remains unremedied for 30 days after the earlier of:
Non-payment
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
Any representation, warranty or statement made or repeated in the Finance Documents or in any written certificate or statement delivered, made or issued by or on behalf of the Company under the Finance Documents or in connection with the Finance Documents shall at any time be incorrect in any respect when so made or repeated or deemed to be made or repeated and the circumstances giving rise to such misrepresentation would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company ceases or threatens to cease to carry on the whole or a substantial part of its business, save as permitted by Clause  18.6 () and Clause 18.7 ().
Disposals
Mergers
 
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
All or any substantial part of the Assets of the Company shall be seized or expropriated by any authority.
 
 
At any time it is unlawful for the Company to perform such of its obligations under the Finance Document as are, in the reasonable opinion of the Facility Agent, material.
 
 
The entire commercial participation of the Company (as determined on an annualised basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2009) after the date of this Agreement ceases to be directly or indirectly beneficially owned by U. S. Steel, unless such cessation results from a Permitted Merger.
 
 
If an Event of Default is outstanding, the Facility Agent may, and must if so instructed by the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
Any notice given under this Subclause will take effect in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, the Arranger has no obligations of any kind to any other Party in connection with any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it must promptly notify the other Finance Parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That Party will be regarded as having received the amount so deducted.
 
 
Each Administrative Party may refrain from doing anything (including, without limitation, disclosing any information) which might, in its opinion, constitute a breach of any law or regulation or be otherwise actionable at the suit of any person, and may do anything which, in its opinion, is necessary or desirable to comply with any law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Facility Agent requires, any amount payable to the Facility Agent by any Party under any indemnity or in respect of any costs or expenses incurred by the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents after the date of this Agreement may include the cost of using its management time or other resources and will be calculated on the basis of such reasonable daily or hourly rates as the Facility Agent may notify to the relevant Party.  This is in addition to any amount in respect of fees or expenses paid or payable to the Facility Agent under any other term of the Finance Documents.
 
 
Where this Agreement specifies a minimum period of notice to be given to the Facility Agent, the Facility Agent may, at its discretion, accept a shorter notice period.
 
 
 
Accounts maintained by a Finance Party in connection with this Agreement are prima facie evidence of the matters to which they relate for the purpose of any litigation or arbitration proceedings.
 
47
 
 
 
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under the Finance Documents will be, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
 
Any interest or fee accruing under this Agreement accrues from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of 360 days or otherwise, depending on what the Facility Agent determines is market practice.
 
 
 
The Company must pay to the Facility Agent for its own account an agency fee in the amount and manner agreed in the Fee Letter between the Facility Agent and the Company.
 
 
The Company must pay to the Arrangers for their own account an arrangement fee in the amount and manner agreed in the Fee Letter between the Arrangers and the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's liability in each case includes any loss or expense on account of funds borrowed, contracted for or utilised to fund any amount payable under any Finance Document or any Loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exceeds
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company must pay to or reimburse on demand the Facility Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with:
 
 
 
 
The Company must pay to each Finance Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including reasonable legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50
 
 
 
 
 
 
may only be made with the consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
 
If a change in any currency of a country occurs (including where there is more than one currency or currency unit recognised at the same time as the lawful currency of a country), the Finance Documents will be amended to the extent the Facility Agent (acting reasonably and after consultation with the Company) determines is necessary to reflect the change.
 
 
The rights of each Finance Party under the Finance Documents:
 
 
 
 
Delay in exercising or non-exercise of any right is not a waiver of that right.
 
 
 
The Company may not assign or transfer any of its rights and obligations under the Finance Documents without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
51
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means, for a Transfer Certificate, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent must execute as soon as reasonably practicable a Transfer Certificate delivered to it and which appears on its face to be in order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If:
 
 
 
then, unless the assignment, transfer or change is made by a Lender to mitigate any circumstances giving rise to the Tax Payment, Increased Cost or right to be prepaid and/or cancelled by reason of illegality, the Company need only pay that Tax Payment or Increased Cost to the same extent that it would have been obliged to if no assignment, transfer or change had occurred.
 
53
 
 
 
If a Reference Bank (or, if a Reference Bank is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is an Affiliate) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent must (in consultation with the Company) appoint another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender to replace that Reference Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
except that no such charge, assignment or Security Interest shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54
 
 
 
 
 
 
(the entity pursuant to paragraph (i) or (ii) of this Clause 26.8(a) shall be referred to as a ), which Replacement Lender confirms its willingness to assume and does assume all the obligations or all the relevant obligations of the transferring Specified Lender (including the assumption of the transferring Specified Lender's participations or unfunded participations, as the case may be, on the same basis as the transferring Specified Lender) for a purchase price in cash payable at the time of transfer equal to the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's participation in the outstanding Loans and all accrued interest fees, Break Costs and other amounts payable in relation thereto under the Finance Documents.
Replacement Lender
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, before a participant may receive any confidential information, it must agree with the relevant Finance Party to keep that information confidential on the terms of paragraph (a) of this Clause 27.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any amount owing by the Company under this Agreement to a Finance Party (the ) is discharged by payment, set-off or any other manner other than in accordance with this Agreement (a ), then:
recovering Finance Party
recovery
 
56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
each Finance Party, on the request of the Facility Agent, must reimburse the recovering Finance Party all or the appropriate portion of the redistribution paid to that Finance Party, together with interest for the period while it held the redistribution.  In this event, the subrogation in paragraph (b) of this Clause 29.2 will operate in reverse to the extent of the reimbursement.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other term of this Clause, a recovering Finance Party need not pay a redistribution to the extent that:
 
 
 
 
57
 
 
 
 
If a term of a Finance Document is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any jurisdiction, that will not affect:
 
 
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts.  This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
 
 
All notices or other communications under or in connection with this Agreement shall be given in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by letter or facsimile.  Any such notice will be deemed to be given as follows:
 
 
 
However, a notice given in accordance with this Clause 32.1 but received on a non-working day or after business hours in the place of receipt will only be deemed to be given on the next working day in that place.
 
 
 
U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o.
Vstupn arel U. S. Steel
044 54 Koice
The Slovak Republic
Attention:                     Chief Financial Officer
Fax:                              00421-95-673-0858
 
and copied to:
 
United States Steel Corporation
600 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Attention:                     Assistant Treasurer - Finance & Risk Management
Fax                               001 412 433 4756
 
58
 
 
or such other as the Company may notify to the Facility Agent by not less than five Business Days' notice.
 
ka zahraninej banky
ING Bank N. V., pobo
Jesenskho 4/C
811 02 Bratislava
The Slovak Republic
 
or such other as the Facility Agent may notify to the other Parties by not less than five Business Days' notice.
 
 
All formal communication under the Finance Documents to or from the Company must be sent through the Facility Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement is governed by English law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
 
Without prejudice to any other mode of service, the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company:
 
 
 
 
Nothing in this Clause 35 limits the right of a Finance Party to bring proceedings against the Company in connection with any Finance Document:
 
 
 
 
The Company irrevocably and unconditionally:-
 
 
60
 
 
 
 
 
EACH PARTY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION IN CONNECTION WITH ANY FINANCE DOCUMENT OR ANY TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY ANY FINANCE DOCUMENT. THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE FILED AS A WRITTEN CONSENT TO TRIAL BY COURT.
 
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
61
 
 
 
 
62
 
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:
 
[                               ]
 
 
64
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We refer to the Agreement.  This is a Transfer Certificate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65
 
 
 
 
 
The Transfer Date is confirmed by the Facility Agent as [          ].
 
poboka zahraninej banky
ING Bank N.V.,
 
By:
 
Accepted:
 
U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o.
 
By: 
________________
 
By: 
________________
 
Note: It is the responsibility of each New Lender to ascertain whether any other document or formality is required to perfect the transfer contemplated by this Transfer Certificate or to take the benefit of any interest in any security.
 
66
 
 
 
 
 
Pittsburgh, []
date
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
 
I am currently a General Attorney International of United States Steel Corporation (the "Corporation") and have been educated and practice in the Slovak Republic. My most recent previous position was Assistant General Counsel of U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o., a company organized and existing under the laws of the Slovak Republic (the "Company"). This opinion is being delivered in connection with the execution and delivery of the Agreement.
 
Capitalized terms that are used in this opinion letter that are not defined have the same meanings given to them in the Agreement.
 
In giving this opinion I have examined the following documents:
 
 
 
 
 
 
I or persons under my supervision have examined originals or copies of all such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments and have conducted such other investigations of fact and law as they and I have deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of this opinion
 
In rendering this opinion I made the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
67
 
 
 
This opinion is limited to the laws of the Slovak Republic currently in force and I have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction.  I express no opinion as to matters of fact.  This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to me and about which I have no knowledge. I assume that there are no facts that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the foregoing assumptions and the following qualifications, I am of the opinion that, so far as the laws of the Slovak Republic is concerned at the date of this opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70
 
 
 
 
This opinion expresses Slovak legal concepts in English.  Such concepts are not always capable of precise expression in English without an extensive comparative law analysis that would not be appropriate for an opinion of this kind.
 
This opinion is given exclusively in connection with the Agreement and for no other purpose. It is strictly limited to the matters set forth herein and no opinion may be inferred or implied beyond that expressly stated herein.
 
This opinion is given for the sole benefit of the persons to whom the opinion is addressed. This opinion may not be disclosed to anyone else except that it may be disclosed, but only on the express basis that they may not rely on it, to any professional adviser or to any potential assignee, transferee and sub-participant of the Facility or as required by law or regulation.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
Elena Petrkov
General Attorney International, United States Steel Corporation
 
 
71
 
 
 
 
 
[DATE]
 
Dear Sirs,
 
We have acted as legal advisers as to the laws of England to , with its registered seat at Bijlmerplein 888, 1102MG Amsterdam, The Netherlands, a company limited by shares, registered in the Trade Register of Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Amsterdam under file No. 33031431 acting through its organisational unit , Jesenskho 4/C, 811 02 Bratislava, Slovak Republic, Identification No. 30 844 754, registered in the Commercial register maintained by the District Court of Bratislava I, in Section Po, inserted file No. 130/B (the ) in connection with the Agreement. In this matter we have taken instructions solely from the Client.
ING Bank N.V.
ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej banky
Client
 
Terms defined in the Agreement and not defined otherwise herein shall have the same meanings when used in this opinion as they have in the Agreement.
 
We have examined copies of the executed Agreement and of the executed legal opinions referred to in paragraphs 7(a) and (b) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement (contained in Schedules 5 and 7 to the Agreement).
 
We have not examined any other document entered into by or affecting the Company or any corporate or other records of the Company and have not made any other inquiries concerning it.
 
This opinion is limited to the substantive laws of England currently in force and we have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction. We express no opinion as to matters of fact. This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to use and about which we have no knowledge. We assume that there are no facts that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
Subject to the qualifications set out below and to any matters not disclosed to us, we are of the opinion that, so far as the present laws of England are concerned:
 
 
 
 
72
 
 
 
 
The qualifications to which this opinion is subject are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is given for the sole benefit of the persons to whom the opinion is addressed. This opinion may not be disclosed to anyone else except that it may be disclosed, but only on the express basis that they may not rely on it, to any professional adviser or to any potential assignee, transferee and sub-participant of the Facility or as required by law or regulation.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
[           ]
 
Morley Allen & Overy Iroda
 
73
 
 
 
 
 
[DATE]
 
Dear Sirs,
 
We have acted as legal advisers as to the laws of the Slovak Republic to , with its registered seat at Bijlmerplein 888, 1102MG Amsterdam, The Netherlands, a company limited by shares, registered in the Trade Register of Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Amsterdam under file No. 33031431 acting through its organisational unit , Jesenskho 4/C, 811 02 Bratislava, Slovak Republic, Identification No. 30 844 754, registered in the Commercial register maintained by the District Court of Bratislava I, in Section Po, inserted file No. 130/B (the ) in connection with the Agreement. In this matter we have taken instructions solely from the Client.
ING Bank N.V.
ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej banky
Client
 
Terms defined in the Agreement and not defined otherwise herein shall have the same meanings when used in this opinion as they have in the Agreement.
 
DOCUMENTS
 
For the purposes of this opinion, we have examined the copies of following documents:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as stated above, we have not examined any other contracts or documents or any corporate or other records.
 
ASSUMPTIONS
 
In giving this opinion we have assumed:
 
74
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion is limited to the law of the Slovak Republic currently in force and we have made no investigation and no opinion is expressed or implied as to the laws of any other jurisdiction. We express no opinion on any EU Directives not implemented in the Slovak domestic law. We express no opinion as to matters of fact and/or commercial facts. This opinion is given subject to matters not disclosed to us and about which we have no knowledge.  We assume that there are no matters of fact that would affect the conclusions in this opinion.
 
We have not advised as to matters of taxation law and practice.
 
OPINION
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions set out above and the qualifications set out below, we are of the opinion that, so far as the laws of the Slovak Republic are concerned at the date of this opinion:
 
 
75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS
 
The qualifications to which this opinion is subject are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
GENERAL
 
This opinion expresses Slovak legal concepts in English. Such concepts are not always capable of precise expression in English without the extensive comparative law analysis which would not be appropriate for an opinion of this kind.
 
This opinion is given exclusively in connection with the Agreement and for no other purpose. It is strictly limited to the matters set forth herein and no opinion may be inferred or implied beyond that expressly stated herein. This opinion is issued in understanding that we have no duty to notify any addressees of this opinion or any other person of any changes in Slovak law or its interpretation after the date of this opinion.
 
This opinion is given for the sole benefit of the persons to whom the opinion is addressed. This opinion may not be disclosed to anyone else except that it may be disclosed, but only on the express basis that they may not rely on it, to any professional adviser or to any potential assignee, transferee and sub-participant of the Facility or as required by law or regulation.
 
Yours faithfully,
[         ]
Allen & Overy Bratislava, s.r.o.
 
78
 
 
 
as Company
U. S. Steel Koice, s.r.o.
 
 
CO
MMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft, poboka zahraninej banky, Bratislava
as Mandated Lead Arranger
 
 
as Mandated Lead Arranger
ING Bank N.V.,
poboka zahraninej banky
 
 
 
Slovensk sporitea, a.s.
 
as Mandated Lead Arranger
 
 
Citibank Europe plc, poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Lead Arranger
 
 
79
 
 
HSBC Bank plc, poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Lead Arranger
 
 
COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft, poboka zahranin
ej banky, Bratislava
as Original Lender
 
 
ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Original Lender
 
 
Slovensk sporitea, a.s.
 
as Original Lender
 
 
Citibank Europe plc, poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Original Lender
 
 
80
 
 
HSBC Bank plc, poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Lender
 
 
ING Bank N.V., poboka zahraninej banky
 
as Facility Agent
 
 
81
 


