FILE:X/X-8K-20111123171802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
<PAGE> 2
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
On November 23, 2011, United States Steel Corporation (the Corporation) issued a press release announcing that it has been notified of an unsolicited mini-tender offer by TRC Capital Corporation (TRC) to purchase up to three million shares, or approximately two percent, of the Corporations outstanding common stock.  As indicated in the press release, TRC may terminate or amend its offer if certain conditions occur, including any decrease in the market price of the Corporations common stock.  The Corporation does not endorse TRCs mini-tender offer and recommends that shareholders do not tender their shares.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
  (d)  Exhibits
         99.1 Press Release  United States Steel Corporation Recommends Shareholders Reject TRC Capital Corporation Mini-Tender Offer "
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
Dated:  November 23, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
United States Steel Corporation (NYSE: X) has been notified of an unsolicited mini-tender offer by TRC Capital Corporation to purchase up to three million shares, or approximately two percent, of the companys outstanding common stock at a price of $24.50 per share in cash.  The offer price was approximately 4.52 percent below the $25.66 closing price of our common stock on November 17, 2011, the day prior to the offer.  TRC may terminate or amend the offer if, among other things, the market price of the Companys shares declines, or if TRC fails to obtain financing necessary to consummate the offer.
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 23, 2011 
 
The Company does not endorse TRCs mini-tender offer and recommends that shareholders do not tender their shares.  The Company is not associated with this offer and urges shareholders to obtain current market quotations for their shares, review the conditions to the offer and exercise caution.
 
TRC has made many similar mini-tender offers for shares of other publicly-traded companies.  Mini-tender offers are designed to seek to acquire less than five percent of a companys outstanding shares, thereby avoiding many disclosure and procedural requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  As a result, mini-tender offers do not provide investors with the same level of protections as provided by larger tender offers under United States securities laws.
 
 
 
 
 
The SEC has cautioned investors about mini-tender offers, noting that some bidders make mini-tender offers at below-market prices, hoping that they will catch investors off guard if the investors do not compare the offer price to the current market price.  The SECs Investor Tips regarding mini-tender offers may be found on the SECs website at .
www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/minitend.htm
 
The Company encourages broker and dealers, as well as other market participants, to review the SECs letter regarding broker-dealer mini-tender offer dissemination and disclosures at .
www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/minitenders/sia072401.htm
 
According to TRCs offer documents, shareholders who have already tendered their shares may withdraw their shares at any time prior to 12:01 a.m. ET, on Tuesday, December 20, 2011, the expiration date set forth in the offer documents, by following the procedures described in the offer documents.
 
2011-029
For more information about , visit www.ussteel.com.
U. S. Steel
 
 
 


