FILE:COL/COL-8K-20041103083412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Registrant's press release dated November 3, 2004, regarding Rockwell Collins year end results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 3, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Rockwell Collins Reports Fiscal Year 2004 EPS Increases 17% to $1.67; Revenues Grow 15% to $2.93 Billion
 
 Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reported net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 of $301 million, or $1.67 per share, a 17% increase over fiscal year 2003 reported net income of $258 million, or $1.43 per share. Total segment operating margins improved 130 basis points to a level of 16.5% as compared to 15.2% last year.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (November 3, 2004)
 
Sales for fiscal year 2004 increased $388 million, or 15% to a record-high level of $2.93 billion, compared to sales of $2.54 billion recorded last year. Sales from the company's NLX simulation and training business acquired in December 2003 accounted for $105 million, or 4 percentage points of the revenue growth, while organic sales grew by $283 million, or 11%. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2004 was $401 million, $27 million higher than the $374 million reported for fiscal year 2003.
 
"Our fiscal year 2004 performance marks a year of significant achievement by our company," said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones. "This was the most successful year in our young history with regards to sales, total segment operating margins and earnings per share, and we were extremely successful in winning several major program positions which are expected to drive revenue and earnings growth for years to come."
 
"As the commercial aerospace market begins its recovery and our government markets remain strong, we are witnessing the positive impact of our commitment to initiatives aimed at increasing productivity, improving program execution and leveraging resources across our businesses," added Jones. "This continued drive toward operational excellence has played a key role in enabling us to win new business, expand segment operating margins, and grow profitability at a faster rate than sales."
Net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 was $86 million, or 48 cents per share, compared with net income of $73 million, or 40 cents per share for the same period last year. Fourth quarter earnings per share grew by 20%, slightly higher than the 18% increase in net income, due to the favorable impact of the company's share repurchase program. Sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 were $839 million, an improvement of $96 million, or 13% from $743 million reported for the same period a year ago. NLX accounted for $38 million, or 5 percentage points of the revenue increase, as organic revenues grew by 8%.
 
Following is a discussion of fiscal fourth quarter 2004 sales and operating margins for each business segment.
 
Government Systems
 
Government Systems, which provides aviation electronics, navigation and precision guidance and communications systems, products and services to the United States government, foreign militaries and manufacturers of military platforms, reported fiscal fourth quarter 2004 sales of $459 million, an increase of $70 million, or 18% compared to $389 million for the same period a year ago. Sales from NLX contributed $38 million, or 10 percentage points of the total Government Systems revenue growth, while organic sales increased by 8%.
 
The increase in Government Systems' organic revenues was primarily related to the initial deliveries of Defense Advanced Global Positioning System Receivers and higher year-over-year sales on the Joint Tactical Radio System and Future Combat Systems integrated computing system development contracts.
 
Government Systems' operating earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 were $81 million, or an operating margin of 17.6%, compared to $83 million, or an operating margin of 21.3% for the same period last year. As expected, the lower operating margin was principally due to current year fourth quarter revenues consisting of a higher proportion of lower margin NLX and development program revenues; the impact of which was partially offset by productivity improvements as Government Systems incurred lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales. Prior year fourth quarter operating earnings benefited from a favorable warranty adjustment.
Commercial Systems
 
Commercial Systems, which provides aviation electronics systems, products and services to air transport, business and regional aircraft manufacturers and airlines worldwide, reported fiscal fourth quarter 2004 sales of $380 million, an increase of $26 million or 7% from sales of $354 million reported for the same period last year. Increased demand for new business jets and the continued strengthening in overall demand for aftermarket service, support and retrofit activity fueled the revenue growth.
 
Air transport avionics sales increased slightly as lower original equipment sales were more than offset by growth in aftermarket revenues. Contributing to this sales variance was an anticipated shift of in-flight entertainment (IFE) revenues from original equipment line-fit to aftermarket retrofit installations. Aftermarket sales also benefited from the impact of year-over-year growth in global airline flight hours. Business and regional avionics sales were up 15% as higher sales to business jet original equipment manufacturers (OEM's) combined with increased aftermarket revenues significantly outweighed the impact of lower sales to regional jet OEM's due to slowing production of 50-seat aircraft.
 
Commercial Systems' fourth quarter operating earnings increased to $59 million, or an operating margin of 15.5%, compared to $31 million, or an operating margin of 8.8% for the same period last year. The higher sales volume combined with the effects of cost containment and productivity improvement initiatives accounted for a majority of this improvement. The prior year operating earnings included a $9 million loss reserve related to certain IFE contracts.
 
Corporate
 
General corporate, net expense was $17 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 compared to $11 million for last year's fourth quarter. Higher employee incentive compensation costs contributed to the increase.
 
During the fourth quarter, the company provided additional value to its shareowners by utilizing the strength of its balance sheet and operating cash flows to continue executing its share repurchase program. Fourth quarter fiscal year 2004 share repurchases totaled 1.3 million shares at a cost of $45 million. For the full 2004 fiscal year, the company repurchased a total of 5.8 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $179 million, or an average cost of $31.16 per share.
Business Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
quantity contract has a ceiling of $3.6 billion. This contract brings together Air Force and Rockwell Collins support expertise to provide transformational depot partnering in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency by which the critical systems used to fight the Nation's war on terror are supported. Under the terms of the agreement, Collins Aviation Services (CAS) will deliver a full range of Rockwell Collins' products and services to United States Air Force and other Department of Defense customers.
 
 
Fiscal Year 2005 Outlook
 
For fiscal year 2005, the company continues to anticipate revenues of approximately $3.2 billion, earnings per share between $1.85 and $1.95 and cash provided by operating activities in the range of $350 million to $400 million.
 
Government Systems revenues are projected to grow in the range of 10% to 12% and account for approximately 54% of total company sales while Commercial Systems revenues are expected to increase in the range of 6% to 8% and represent about 46% of the total. Estimates for segment operating margins for fiscal year 2005 remain at approximately 18% for Government Systems and approximately 16% for Commercial Systems.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
Rockwell Collins' Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones and Senior Vice President and CFO Larry Erickson will conduct an earnings conference call at 9 a.m. Eastern Time on November 3, 2004. Individuals may listen on the Internet at . Listeners are encouraged to go to the Investor Relations portion of the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary software. The call will be available for replay on the Internet at through December 3, 2004.
www.rockwellcollins.com
www.rockwellcollins.com
Rockwell Collins is a leader in the design, production and support of communications and aviation electronics solutions for commercial and government customers worldwide. Additional information is available at .
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the health of the global economy, the continued recovery of the commercial aerospace industry and the continued strength of the military communications and electronics industry; the impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies favorable to our businesses; market acceptance of new and existing products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; potential cancellation or termination of contracts, delay of orders or changes in procurement practices or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors which we are highly dependent upon for timely, high quality and specification compliant products and services; risks inherent in fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant and prolonged disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our continuous productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; favorable outcomes of certain customer procurements, congressional approvals and regulatory mandates; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.


