FILE:COL/COL-8K-20040127093347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's press release dated January 27, 2004, regarding Rockwell Collins first quarter results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. This press release contains a non-GAAP financial measure as additional information relating to the Company's cash flow performance; specifically, cash flow from operating activities before voluntary pension contributions to qualified plans. The Company's management believes that the presentation of this measure provides useful information to investors regarding trends relating to the cash flow that the Company generates from normal operating activities.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: January 27, 2004
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
 
 
Rockwell Collins reports earnings per share of 38 cents for first quarter 2004, an increase of 41% over prior year
 
Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reported earnings per share of 38 cents for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 ended December 31, 2003, an increase of 11 cents or 41% from the 27 cents reported last year. Net income was $68 million, an increase of $19 million, or 39% greater than the $49 million reported for the first quarter last year. This increase results from our strong first quarter sales, combined with continued improvement in operating efficiencies. The first quarter of fiscal year 2004 also benefited from $5 million ($3 million after-tax or 2 cents per share) in favorable settlements related to insurance matters arising prior to the company's spin-off from its parent company in 2001.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (January 27, 2004)
 
Sales for the first quarter of 2004 were $628 million, an increase of $67 million, or 12% from the $561 million reported last year. Cash used for operating activities in the first quarter was $44 million. However, excluding $125 million in voluntary contributions made to the company's qualified pension plans, cash generated by operating activities was $81 million, an increase of $59 million from last year's first quarter.
 
Clay Jones, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Rockwell Collins said, "I am very pleased with our first quarter results that were made possible by improved performance across all our businesses. In addition to the continued outstanding performance of our Government Systems business, it is especially gratifying to see definite signs of the predicted
 
stabilization in commercial market conditions. This combination has enabled us to raise our guidance for the year to reflect these improvements."
 
Following is a discussion of sales and earnings for each business segment.
 
Government Systems
 
Government Systems, which provides aviation electronics, navigation and precision guidance and communications systems, products and services to the United States government, foreign militaries and manufacturers of military platforms, achieved first quarter sales of $311 million, an increase of $55 million, or 21%, from the same period last year. NLX LLC, acquired on December 1, 2003, provided $7 million, or 2%, of this sales growth.
 
The 19% organic sales increase is attributable to higher sales on the KC-135 and international C-130 aircraft retrofit programs, ARC-210/220 radio products and the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) and Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) development programs.
 
Government Systems' operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 increased to 20.3% compared with 18.8% for the same period in fiscal year 2003. The increase in margins was a result of the business holding expenses flat on higher sales volume and favorable performance on various production programs. This more than offset higher production start-up costs on several navigation and display programs.
 
Commercial Systems
 
Commercial Systems, which provides aviation electronics systems, products and services to air transport, business and regional aircraft manufacturers and airlines worldwide, achieved first quarter sales of $317 million, an increase of $12 million, or 4%, from the same period last year.
 
The sales increase resulted primarily from higher air transport, business and regional aftermarket sales. Sales of commercial aviation electronics systems and products to the air transport, business and regional jet OEMs were comparable to sales for the same period last year.
 
Commercial Systems' operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 increased to 13.2%, compared with 10.5% for the same period in fiscal year 2003. This increase was a result of the higher sales volume and lower operating expenses.
 
Corporate
 
Share repurchases in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 were 1 million shares at a cost of $25 million.
 
Financial Highlights:
 
 
 
Business Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
deployment on several U.S. Navy and Air Force and international aircraft platforms. Data Link Solutions is a joint venture between Rockwell Collins and BAE SYSTEMS.
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2004 Outlook
 
After considering the acquisition of NLX LLC, and the strength of our first quarter sales and operating results, the company anticipates revenues in the range of $2.80 billion to $2.85 billion. The company also increased its earnings per share guidance by 10 cents and is now anticipating earnings per share will be in the range of $1.50 to $1.60 for the fiscal year.
 
Our Government Systems business operating margins should decrease from the 20% posted in the first quarter of 2004 to a range of 17% to 18% for the fiscal year due to our acquisition of NLX and an increase in revenues from the lower margin Joint Tactical Radio System and Joint Strike Fighter development contracts. Our Commercial Systems business operating margins are still projected to be in the range of 13% to 14% for the fiscal year.
 
Cash provided from operating activities for the fiscal year is now projected to be $25 million higher than previous guidance due to the increase in expected earnings for the year. Cash provided by operating activities is now expected to be in the range of $225 million to $275 million after making a $125 million voluntary contribution to our qualified pension plans in October 2003.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones and Senior Vice President and CFO Larry Erickson will conduct an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on January 27, 2004. Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at . Listeners are encouraged to go to the Investor Relations portion of the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary software. The call will be available for replay on the Internet at through February 29, 2004.
www.rockwellcollins.com
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
Rockwell Collins is a leader in the design, production and support of communications and aviation electronics solutions for commercial and government customers worldwide. In January 2004, Forbes magazine selected Rockwell Collins as the best managed aerospace & defense company in America. Additional information is available at .
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the timing related to the recovery of the commercial airline industry such as airline passenger traffic and profitability; the health of the global economy as well as the commercial aerospace industry; a reduction of domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies; economic and political changes in international markets where we compete; demand for and market acceptance of new and existing products; performance of our products; potential cancellation or termination of contracts by our customers; delay of orders or changes in procurement practices by our customers; customer bankruptcy; labor work stoppages; material shortages; the risks inherent in fixed price contracts; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; performance of our major suppliers and subcontractors; our ability to successfully execute to our internal performance plans; achieving our planned effective tax rates; favorable outcomes of certain customer procurements and congressional approvals; changes to new aircraft build rates; product reliability; successful execution of our acquisition, strategic and integration plans; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


