FILE:COL/COL-8K-20050126083425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Registrant's press release dated January 26, 2005, regarding Rockwell Collins first quarter results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
 
 
Rockwell Collins reports first quarter fiscal year 2005 earnings per share of 50 cents;
a year-over-year increase of 32% on sales growth of 21%
 
 Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reported net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 ended December 31, 2004 of $90 million, or 50 cents per share, a 32% increase over fiscal year 2004 first quarter net income of $68 million, or 38 cents per share. Total segment operating margins for the current year first quarter improved 190 basis points to a level of 18.6% as compared to 16.7% reported last year.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (January 26, 2005)
 
Sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 were $763 million, an increase of $135 million, or 21% from the $628 million reported last year. The company generated $46 million in cash from operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005. This compares to $44 million in cash used for operating activities in last year's first quarter, which included $125 million in voluntary contributions made to the company's qualified pension plans.
 
"Our outstanding first quarter financial results were driven by continued strong demand for our Commercial and Government Systems products, a favorable mix of higher margin aftermarket sales, and the success of our ongoing initiatives aimed at controlling costs and enhancing productivity," said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones. "With this excellent start to the new fiscal year, we now expect both businesses to deliver double-digit revenue growth for a second consecutive year, and look for expanding segment operating margins to drive an even higher level of earnings per share growth."
 
Following is a discussion of sales and earnings for each business segment.
 
Government Systems
 
Government Systems, which provides aviation electronics, navigation and precision guidance and communications systems, products and services to the United States government, foreign militaries and manufacturers of military platforms, achieved first quarter sales of $390 million, an increase of $79 million, or 25%, compared to the $311 million reported for the same period last year. Rockwell Collins Simulation & Training Solutions (previously known as NLX), acquired on December 1, 2003, provided $21 million of incremental sales, or 7 percentage points of the sales growth. Revenues from programs won during the 2004 fiscal year contributed to the 18% in organic revenue growth.
 
Defense electronics sales increased 38% principally due to the incremental sales from Rockwell Collins Simulation & Training, new revenues from the Defense Advanced Global Positioning System Receiver (DAGR) production and E-6B aircraft modification programs, and higher revenues from the KC-135 aircraft retrofit program. Defense Communications sales increased 5% due to higher Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) development program revenues, including initial revenues from the Airborne, Maritime/Fixed Station and Cluster 5 contracts won in the prior fiscal year.
 
Government Systems' operating earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 were $70 million, an increase of 11% from $63 million posted for the same period last year. Compared to the current year first quarter operating margin of 17.9%, Government Systems' prior year first quarter operating margin of 20.3% benefited from favorable performance on various production programs and the absence of the impact of a full quarter of lower margin revenues from Rockwell Collins Simulation & Training Solutions.
 
Commercial Systems
 
Commercial Systems, which provides aviation electronics systems, products and services to air transport, business and regional aircraft manufacturers and airlines worldwide, achieved first quarter sales of $373 million, an increase of $56 million, or 18%, compared to sales of $317 million reported for the same period last year. Significantly higher aftermarket activity and demand for new business aircraft drove the revenue growth.
 
Air transport aviation electronics sales increased 10% as growth in aftermarket revenues more than offset lower original equipment sales. An anticipated shift of in-flight entertainment (IFE) revenues from original equipment line-fit to aftermarket retrofit installations accounted for the lower original equipment sales. Stronger demand for other retrofit applications and increased service and support activity also contributed to the higher aftermarket revenues. Business and regional aviation electronics sales increased 29% as significantly higher business jet original equipment manufacturer (OEM) sales and aftermarket revenues, including modification programs, more than outweighed the impact of anticipated lower sales to regional jet OEMs.
 
Commercial Systems' first quarter operating earnings increased 71% to $72 million, or an operating margin of 19.3%, compared to $42 million, or an operating margin of 13.2% for the same period last year. The combination of the higher sales, a favorable mix of higher margin aftermarket revenues, and enhanced operating efficiencies accounted for the improvements.
 
Corporate
 
Share repurchases in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 were 0.7 million shares at a cost of $27 million.
 
Business Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2005 Outlook
 
On January 12, 2005 the company increased its earnings per share guidance by 15 cents and is now expecting earnings per share in the range of $2.00 to $2.10 for the full fiscal year. The company also increased its sales guidance for the year by $75 million to $100 million and now expects fiscal year 2005 sales to be in the range of $3.275 billion to $3.3 billion.
 
Government Systems revenues are still expected to grow in the range of 10% to 12% from fiscal year 2004 and represent approximately 52% of total company sales while Commercial Systems revenues are now expected to increase in the range of 11% to 13% (previously 6% to 8%) and represent about 48% of the total.
 
Government Systems segment operating margin is still expected to approximate 18% for the full 2005 fiscal year. Commercial Systems segment operating margin is now expected to be about 18% for the full year (previously about 16%).
 
Additionally, cash provided from operating activities for the full fiscal year is now projected to be in the range of $450 million to $500 million; an improvement of about $100 million over the company's previously provided range.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones and Senior Vice President and CFO Patrick Allen will conduct an earnings conference call at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on January 26, 2005. Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at . Listeners are encouraged to go to the Investor Relations portion of the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary software. The call will be available for replay on the Internet at through February 25, 2005.
www.rockwellcollins.com
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
Rockwell Collins is a leader in the design, production and support of communications and aviation electronics solutions for commercial and government customers worldwide. Additional information is available at .
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
 
1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the health of the global economy, the continued recovery of the commercial aerospace industry and the continued strength of the military communications and electronics industry; domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies; market acceptance of new and existing products and services; performance of our products and services; potential cancellation or termination of contracts, delay of orders or changes in procurement practices or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors; risks inherent in fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant and prolonged disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; favorable outcomes of certain customer procurements, congressional approvals and regulatory mandates; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes sales by product category for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (unaudited, in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 


