FILE:COL/COL-8K-20060627113830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) Appointment of Director
On June 23, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected Mark Donegan as a member of the Board of Directors to hold office as a Class III Director until the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. At this time, Mr. Donegan has not been appointed to serve on any committees of the Board of Directors. Mr. Donegan is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any of its subsidiaries in which the amount involved exceeds $60,000 and in which Mr. Donegan has a direct or indirect material interest.
The Company's press release announcing this director election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
 
 
 
 
 
Rockwell Collins elects new Board member
-- Rockwell Collins' Board of Directors has elected Mark Donegan to become the tenth member of its Board of Directors. He will fill a position that is subject to reelection at the company's annual shareowners meeting in February 2007.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (June 26, 2006)
Mr. Donegan is currently the chairman and chief executive officer of Precision Castparts Corp., a company he joined in 1985. In his more than 25-year career, he has held positions of increasing responsibility first at General Electric, and at Precision Castparts.
"As an active CEO, Mark brings outstanding operational credentials and we are very pleased that he agreed to join our board," said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones. "He also has broad knowledge of our markets as well as extensive strategic and acquisition experience."
Rockwell Collins is a worldwide leader in the design, production, and support of communication and aviation electronics for commercial and government customers. The company's 17,000 employees in 27 countries deliver industry-leading communication, navigation, surveillance, display, flight control, in-flight entertainment, information management, and maintenance, training and simulation solutions. Additional information is available at .
www.rockwellcollins.com


