FILE:COL/COL-8K-20060126092150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
See disclosure under Item 7.01 below.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, Registrant's press release dated January 26, 2006, regarding Rockwell Collins first quarter results, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
99.1    Press release of Registrant dated January 26, 2006.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
 
Rockwell Collins' first quarter fiscal year 2006 earnings per share increase 18% to 59 cents and sales improve 15% to $881 million
 
 
 
Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reported net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 ended December 31, 2005 of $104 million, a 16% increase over fiscal year 2005 first quarter net income of $90 million. Earnings per share improved 18% to 59 cents compared to 50 cents for the same period last year. Earnings per share growth exceeded the growth in net income due to the favorable effect of the company's accelerated share repurchase agreements executed by the company in August 2005. Total segment operating margins for the first quarter improved to 19.4% compared to 18.6% last year.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (January 26, 2006) 
 
First quarter sales were $881 million, an increase of $118 million, or 15%, from the $763 million reported last year. Organic revenue growth was 12%, with incremental sales from the TELDIX business, acquired in March 2005, contributing $23 million, or 3 percentage points, of the total revenue growth. First quarter cash provided by operating activities totaled $57 million, better than the $52 million reported for the same period a year ago, despite higher income tax and employee incentive compensation payments in the current year first quarter.
 
"Rockwell Collins' 2006 fiscal year is off to an excellent start," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones. "Our diverse portfolio of systems, products and services, as well as our strong positions in faster growing segments of the markets we serve, helped contribute to our ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth."
 
Commenting on the company's profitability growth in the first quarter, Jones continued, "Our ability to improve productivity and the benefits of our shared service infrastructure continue to be catalysts for expanding segment operating margins. This quarter's strong increase in net income was achieved despite incurring higher research and development costs, expensing stock-based compensation for the first time, absorbing a higher effective income tax rate, and realizing higher pension expense; further demonstrating our commitment to management efficiency and creation of shareowner value."
 
Current year first quarter net income and earnings per share include $4 million ($3 million after tax) of stock-based compensation costs related to the company's adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),, on October 1, 2005, and $3 million of higher income tax expense, as federal legislation extending tax credits for qualified research and development expenditures incurred beyond December 31, 2005 has not been enacted. In addition, the impact on fiscal year 2006 first quarter net income and earnings per share from increased defined benefit pension plan expense was offset by lower employee incentive compensation costs.
Share-Based Payment
 
With respect to the company's outlook for the full fiscal year, Jones concluded, "Our first quarter results were fueled by better profitability and cash flow performance than we previously expected. Considering this, the strength of our market positions, and our ability to maintain these operating and working capital efficiency levels, we have increased our full year guidance for earnings per share by 10 cents and operating cash flow by $100 million."
 
Following is a discussion of sales and earnings for each business segment.
 
Government Systems
 
Government Systems, which provides aviation electronics, navigation and display products as well as integrated system solutions and services for airborne, ground and shipboard applications to the U.S. Department of Defense, foreign Ministries of Defense, and manufacturers of military platforms, achieved first quarter sales of $473 million, an increase of $83 million, or 21%, compared to the $390 million reported for the same period last year. TELDIX sales contributed $23 million, or 6 percentage points of the revenue growth, and organic revenues grew 15%.
 
Sales of defense electronics systems and products increased $76 million, or 29%, to $342 million due to the incremental TELDIX revenues and higher revenues related to ground force and airborne navigation products, electronics systems upgrade programs for various fixed and rotary-wing military aircraft, and helmet mounted and fixed-wing aircraft display programs. Defense communications sales increased $7 million, or 6%, to $131 million as higher revenues from advanced communications and data link development programs more than offset lower Joint Tactical Radio System development program revenues.
 
Government Systems' first quarter operating earnings increased 33% to $93 million, or an operating margin of 19.7%, compared to operating earnings of $70 million, or an operating margin of 17.9%, for the same period last year. The higher operating earnings and operating margin were attributable to the leverage provided by the combination of the higher sales and operational efficiencies gained from enhanced engineering resource utilization, as well as Government Systems incurring lower operating expenses as a percent of sales. These improvements more than offset the impact of lower margin TELDIX revenues.
 
Commercial Systems
 
Commercial Systems, which provides aviation electronics systems, products and services to air transport, business and regional aircraft manufacturers and airlines and operators of business aircraft worldwide, achieved first quarter sales of $408 million, an increase of $35 million, or 9%, compared to sales of $373 million reported for the same period last year.
 
Sales to airlines and aircraft original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) increased $47 million, or 30%, to $202 million. Significantly higher revenues resulting from accelerating air transport and business aircraft production rates and related share gains more than offset the impact of lower regional jet OEM revenues due to reduced production rates. Commercial Systems' aftermarket revenues dropped $12 million, or 6%, to $206 million. A sharp decline in regulatory mandate program revenues as well as lower in-flight entertainment retrofit revenues more than offset a 7% increase in other core aftermarket activities. The air transport aviation electronics and business and regional aviation electronics product portfolios contributed nearly equally to the rate of Commercial Systems' total revenue growth.
 
Commercial Systems' first quarter operating earnings increased 8% to $78 million, or an operating margin of 19.1%, compared to operating earnings of $72 million, or an operating
 
margin of 19.3%, for the same period a year ago. The higher operating earnings and comparable operating margins were due to the increased operating leverage provided by the higher sales volume and Commercial Systems holding operating expenses essentially flat, partially offset by higher research and development costs and the decline in higher margin regulatory mandate revenues.
 
Corporate
 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the company repurchased 0.9 million shares of common stock for $33 million, of which 0.2 million shares were acquired pursuant to the final settlement provisions of accelerated share repurchase agreements using no additional cash.
 
Fiscal Year 2006 Outlook
 
Based on the first quarter's stronger than anticipated profitability growth, most notably in Government Systems, and better than expected cash flow performance, as well as management's current assessment that these levels of efficiency will be maintained for the remainder of the fiscal year, the company has raised its projections for earnings per share, cash flow from operations, and Government Systems segment operating margins as follows:
 
 
 
 
The new guidance assumes a full year effective income tax rate of approximately 30% and is dependent upon legislative action to retroactively extend the availability of research and development tax credits for at least the remainder of the 2006 fiscal year.
 
A summary of these and other elements of the company's current fiscal year 2006 financial guidance are summarized below.
 
 
Business Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones and Senior Vice President and CFO Patrick Allen will conduct an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on January 26, 2006. Individuals may listen to the call and view management's supporting slide presentation on the Internet at . Listeners are encouraged to go to the Investor Relations portion of the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary software. The call will be available for replay on the Internet at through February 24, 2006.
www.rockwellcollins.com
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
Rockwell Collins is a worldwide leader in the design, production, and support of communication and aviation electronics for commercial and government customers. The
 
company's 17,000 employees in 27 countries deliver industry-leading communication, navigation, surveillance, display, flight control, in-flight entertainment, information management, and maintenance, training and simulation solutions. Additional information is available at .
www.rockwellcollins.com
 
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the health of the global economy, the continued recovery of the commercial aerospace industry and the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; the potential adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of new and existing products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; potential cancellation or termination of contracts, delay of orders or changes in procurement practices or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors; risks inherent in fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant and prolonged disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; favorable outcomes of certain program restructuring, customer procurements, and congressional approvals; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products and satisfy our contractual commitments; risk of asset impairments and government claims related to our pension plan freeze; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes total sales by product category and Commercial Systems' sales by type of product or service for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (unaudited, in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 


