FILE:COL/COL-8K-20070726111004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
See disclosure under Item 7.01 below.
Pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, Registrants press release dated July 26, 2007 regarding Rockwell Collins third quarter results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 26, 2007
 

 
News Release
 
Rockwell Collins third quarter fiscal year 2007 earnings per share increase 23% to 86 cents; revenues grow 15% to $1.11 billion
 
 
- Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reported net income of $146 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 ended on June 30, 2007, an increase of $25 million, or 21% over fiscal year 2006 third quarter net income of $121 million. Earnings per share improved 16 cents, or 23%, to 86 cents compared to earnings per share of 70 cents last year. Earnings per share growth exceeded the growth rate in net income due to the favorable effect of the companys share repurchase program.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (July 26, 2007)
Third quarter fiscal year 2007 sales increased $149 million, or 15%, to $1.113 billion compared to sales of $964 million a year ago. Organic revenue growth was $135 million, or 14%. Incremental sales from business acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2006, principally the Evans & Sutherland simulator visualization systems business (the E&S business) acquired in May 2006, contributed $14 million of the revenue growth.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of fiscal year 2007 totaled $298 million compared to the $313 million reported for the same period last year. The operating cash flow benefit of higher net income was more than offset by increases in working capital to support the companys double-digit revenue growth, including initial investments related to new aircraft programs, as well as higher income tax payments and discretionary defined benefit pension plan contributions.
Efficiently delivering on our customer commitments led to another quarter of excellent financial results as both Government and Commercial Systems delivered double-digit organic revenue growth and total segment operating margins approached 21%, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones. In addition, the numerous program awards, new product introductions and product certifications announced during the quarter provide solid evidence of future growth potential.
Commenting on the companys full fiscal year 2007 outlook, Jones added, Due to particularly strong commercial aerospace market conditions and better than anticipated third quarter Commercial Systems sales, we raised our expectations for full year Commercial Systems and total company revenues. Our continued success at winning new program positions coupled with spending on product line enhancements also led us to increase our forecast for full year research and development expenditures. Finally, the incremental earnings from the higher projected revenues, which more than offsets the impact of the higher R&D investment, has allowed us to lift our full year earnings guidance as well, concluded Jones, noting that management is now targeting fiscal year 2007 earnings per share growth of about 25%; more than double the projected organic revenue growth rate of about 11%.
Following is a discussion of fiscal year 2007 third quarter sales and earnings for each business segment.
 
 
Government Systems
Government Systems, which provides aviation electronics, navigation and precision guidance, communications and simulation systems, products and services to the United States government, foreign militaries and manufacturers of military platforms, achieved third quarter sales of $568 million, an increase of $69 million, or 14%, compared to the $499 million reported for the same period last year. Organic revenues grew $60 million, or 12%, while incremental sales from acquired businesses, primarily the E&S business, contributed $9 million of the revenue growth.
Sales of defense electronics systems and products increased $40 million, or 12%, to $375 million. Incremental revenues from acquired businesses contributed $8 million of the sales growth while organic sales increased $32 million, or 10%. The increase in organic sales was primarily due to higher Defense Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR) equipment sales and higher revenues from various rotary and fixed wing aircraft electronics systems programs. Defense communications sales increased $29 million, or 18%, to $193 million principally due to higher revenues from Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) and other networked communication development programs as well as higher ARC-210 radio hardware and development program revenues.
Government Systems third quarter operating earnings totaled $111 million, resulting in an operating margin of 19.5%, compared to operating earnings of $99 million, or an operating margin of 19.8%, for the same period last year. Operating earnings were higher as the positive impact of the higher sales, including a favorable contract termination settlement, productivity improvements, and lower retirement benefit costs were partially offset by higher incentive compensation costs. In addition, a slightly higher proportion of lower margin development program and acquired business revenues contributed to the nominal decline in operating margin.
Commercial Systems
Commercial Systems, which provides aviation electronics systems, products and services to air transport, business and regional aircraft manufacturers and airlines worldwide, achieved third quarter sales of $545 million, an increase of $80 million, or 17%, compared to sales of $465 million reported for the same period last year. Strong demand for new business and air transport aircraft and related aftermarket activities fueled a $75 million, or 16% increase in organic revenues.
Sales to airlines and aircraft original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for new aircraft production increased $25 million, or 10%, to $274 million due to higher air transport and business jet avionics products and systems sales. Commercial Systems aftermarket revenues increased $55 million, or 25%, to $271 million. Incremental E&S business revenues accounted for $5 million, or 2 percentage points of the aftermarket growth while particularly strong growth in the areas of air transport avionics spares, resulting from initial sales of equipment for Boeing 787 simulators, as well as business and regional and air transport avionics service and support activities drove a $50 million, or 23% increase in organic aftermarket revenues.
Commercial Systems third quarter operating earnings increased $19 million to $119 million, delivering an operating margin of 21.8%, compared to operating earnings of $100 million, or an operating margin of 21.5%, for the same period a year ago. The increase in operating earnings and operating margin was primarily due to the positive impact of the higher sales, lower retirement benefit costs and productivity improvements, partially offset by higher research and development and incentive compensation costs.
Financial Highlights:
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company repurchased 1.6 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $108 million. Total authorized share repurchases available beyond June 30, 2007 stand at $347 million.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company paid dividends to shareholders totaling $27 million, or 16 cents per share on its common stock.
 
2
The company made a $75 million voluntary contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan during the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. This compares to a $50 million voluntary contribution made to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan during the same period last year.
Fiscal Year 2007 Outlook
The company has adjusted certain elements of its full fiscal year 2007 financial guidance as follows:
The following table is a complete summary of the companys updated fiscal year 2007 financial guidance:
 
Business Highlights:
Numerous airlines and business and regional jet original equipment manufacturers selected Rockwell Collins Commercial Systems products and systems for installation on new and existing aircraft.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several Rockwell Collins Commercial Systems products and systems achieved certification during the third quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
Rockwell Collins reintroduced its eXchange
TM
broadband connectivity offering that now features the ARINC SKYLink
SM
network service.
Under the terms to an agreement between the two companies that is subject to customary closing conditions, Rockwell Collins will supply airborne broadband hardware and after sales support, while ARINC SKYLink will provide the Ku-band satellite service. ARINC will continue to provide SKYLink system sales and support until the transition to Rockwell Collins eXchange hardware is completed.
 
4
 
The U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Life Cycle Management Command (C-E LCMC) selected Rockwell Collins to supply Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers for the Ground-Based GPS Receiver Application Module (GB-GRAM) program.
GB-GRAM incorporates the Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) security device and fulfills a GPS Wing initiative to migrate to an open architecture system for ground-based embedded military applications. Under the GB-GRAM contract, Rockwell Collins is providing a low-cost, 12-channel Miniature Precision Lightweight GPS Receiver Engine SAASM (MPETM-S) as a small, lightweight, third-generation GPS receiver. The MPE-S offers geolocation and precise positioning capabilities for military navigation, tactical communications and battlefield computing requirements. Additional features include the ability to reprogram the unit in the field, dual frequencies, direct-Y acquisition and extended jamming protection. The five-year base contract and an additional five-year option represent a total potential contract value of more than $300 million.
 
Singapore Technologies Aerospace selected Rockwell Collins to provide an integrated avionics communication/navigation/surveillance and air traffic management (CNS/ATM) solution for 10 Singapore C-130 aircraft.
The upgrade program for the Republic of Singapore Air Force will feature Rockwell Collins Flight2
avionics. Flight2 avionics augments and enhances aircraft operational capabilities by providing an open systems architecture that ensures a seamless interface with multiple products, such as weather radar, guidance systems, and flight and situational awareness displays. Cockpit efficiency, safety and ease of use are improved, while the system provides a plug-and-play capability that allows for growth with evolving requirements. This award represents the latest in a number of successful CNS/ATM upgrade programs for Rockwell Collins, including the U.S. Air Force C/KC-135 GATM aircraft fleet upgrade and several other international C-130 programs.
 
Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs selected Rockwell Collins to provide High Frequency (HF) radios to enhance communication between the countrys embassies located throughout the world.
Selected equipment included Rockwell Collins URG-III radios, a state-of-the-art family of HF communications equipment featuring full remote control, Automatic Link Establishment and high-speed, single-tone data transmission. Coupled with an HF contract award last year with the China Civil Aviation Administration, this award continues to broaden Rockwell Collins customer base in the region.
 
Rockwell Collins announced the introduction of its new Software Defined Radio (SDR) Software Communications Architecture Waveform Development System (SCA WDS).
Made possible through a strategic relationship with PrismTech, the company will bundle its FlexNet Four Radio with PrismTechs Spectra Software Defined Radio development products. This combination will allow international customers and SDR users to develop their own SCA-compliant waveforms, either new or legacy, on operationally ready FlexNet Four Radio hardware, outside a test or lab environment. This enhanced capability allows customers to significantly reduce transition time to port newly developed waveforms onto operational hardware as well as to customize their SDRs to host legacy or country-unique waveforms.
 
Data Link Solutions LLC and the MIDS JTRS Industry and Military Team successfully demonstrated Multifunctional Information Distribution System - Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) capabilities.
The demonstration involved a MIDS-JTRS form-fit terminal interfacing with a legacy MIDS Low Volume Terminal (LVT) radio and a Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN) beacon simulator. MIDS JTRS provides an incremental path for migration to an SCA compliant architecture and adds three JTRS channels within the MIDS-LVT form factor while maintaining plug-and-play backward compatibility with the MIDS-LVT for Link 16 and TACAN capabilities. The three additional channels will provide the capability to run other advanced networking waveforms such as Tactical Targeting Network Technology, Wideband Networking Waveform, Soldier Radio Waveform, and Mobile User Objective System. Data Link Solutions, a BAE Systems / Rockwell Collins joint venture company, is currently developing design specifications and initial hardware for TTNT, and is expecting a contract award later this year to complete the design, integration, and qualification of this early networking waveform onto MIDS JTRS hardware. The initial host platforms for the new radio are the U.S. Navy F/A-18 and U.S. Air Force BACN.
 
Rockwell Collins announced the availability of a new offering, Engineering Services Solutions (ESS), that is now available for its commercial and government customers for a broad range of aircraft.
With more than 30 candidate solutions currently available, ESS provides new capabilities and increased reliability to existing products, in addition to our proven maintenance and repair services. One notable example includes inserting newer RF technology into older generation radar products to improve performance as well as reduce part count, power consumption, operating temperature and maintenance complexity.
 
5
 
Rockwell Collins was selected to provide its EPX
-50 image generator as part of a visual systems upgrade for the Aviation Combined Arms Tactical Trainer (AVCATT) program
. The EPX-50 image generator provides realistic scene fidelity, image quality and high performance using commercial-off-the-shelf computing technology. AVCATT is a mobile, transportable, virtual simulation training system designed to provide Army aviation the capability to conduct realistic, high intensity, task-loaded collective and combined arms training exercises and mission rehearsals.
Conference Call and Webcast Details:
Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones and Senior Vice President and CFO Patrick Allen will conduct an earnings conference call at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on July 26, 2007. Individuals may listen to the call and view managements supporting slide presentation on the Internet at
www.rockwellcollins.com
. Listeners are encouraged to go to the Investor Relations portion of the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary software. The call will be available for replay on the Internet at
www.rockwellcollins.com
through August 24, 2007.
Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronics solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit
www.rockwellcollins.com
.
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the potential impacts of geopolitical events; the financial condition of our customers (including major U.S. airlines); the health of the global economy; rising interest rates; U.S. dollar significantly strengthens; worldwide recession; the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; the potential adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; the cost of the global war on terrorism on U.S. government military procurement expenditures and program budgets; systematic decline in U.S. defense spending; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; favorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us and our customers; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors; risks inherent in fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with export control regulations; risk of asset impairments and government claims related to our pension plan freeze; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed herein and from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
6
 
(1) The $1 million favorable restructuring adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 and the $4 million favorable restructuring adjustment in the first nine months of fiscal year 2007 are principally due to lower than expected employee separation costs related to the business realignment and facility rationalization actions announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006.
(2) The companys effective income tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 was 30.1% compared to 31.6% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. The lower current year third quarter effective income tax rate is primarily due to the availability of federal research and development tax credits partially offset by the combination of the net negative impact of the repeal and replacement of the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion, which provides a tax benefit on export sales, and the higher current year taxable income. In addition, the effective income tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006 were both favorably impacted by discrete tax benefits related to the filing of prior year federal income tax returns. The companys effective income tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal year 2007 of 30.1% includes the recognition in the first quarter of R&D tax credits attributable to the period from January 1, 2006 to September 30, 2006 due to the enactment of legislation that extended the availability of federal research and development tax credits with retroactive effect from January 1, 2006.
 
7
The following tables summarize total sales by product category and Commercial Systems sales by type of product or service for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (unaudited, in millions):
 
8
 
9


