FILE:COL/COL-8K-20070914094549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
Registrants press release dated September 14, 2007, regarding Rockwell Collins reaffirmation of financial guidance for fiscal year 2007 and announcement of financial guidance for fiscal year 2008 is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
 
Rockwell Collins reaffirms fiscal year 2007 financial guidance and announces financial guidance for fiscal year 2008
 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (September 14, 2007)
- Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reaffirmed its fiscal year 2007 full year financial guidance which was last updated on July 26, 2007. The company continues to expect total sales of about $4.35 billion, earnings per share of about $3.40, and cash provided by operating activities of about $600 million. All other elements of the companys financial guidance for fiscal year 2007 also remain unchanged.
For fiscal year 2008, the company anticipates revenues totaling between $4.70 billion and $4.75 billion, earnings per share in the range of $3.80 to $3.95, and cash flow from operations of $675 million to $725 million. Total company sales are expected to be about evenly split between Commercial Systems and Government Systems. Total segment operating margins are projected to increase by roughly 100 basis points to about 22%, with Commercial Systems operating margins expected to increase and Government Systems operating margins projected to be slightly lower than fiscal year 2007 levels.
In 2008, we look forward to delivering another year of excellent financial results, while at the same time substantially increasing our rate of investment on research and development projects that will be the catalyst for continued revenue and earnings growth in the future, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Clay Jones. Our forecasted rates of improvement in revenues, segment operating margins and earnings per share are significant considering they fully accommodate the impact of a much anticipated decline of in-flight entertainment systems revenues, a 15% increase in research and development investments, and about a 1.5 percentage point increase in our effective income tax rate. Contributing to this projected level of performance is the ability of our people to continue delivering productivity gains through the operation of our shared service business model and enterprise-wide lean activities.
Details related to the projected performance of the companys Commercial and Government Systems businesses for fiscal year 2008 are as follows:
 
 
Other assumptions integral to the development of the companys projected total segment operating margin, earnings per share and cash flow financial guidance for fiscal year 2008 are as follows:
- 2 -
The following is a summary of the companys financial guidance for fiscal year 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management, and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit
www.rockwellcollins.com
.
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the financial condition of our customers (including major U.S. airlines); the health of the global economy; delays related to the award of domestic and international contracts; the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; the potential adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; the impact of the global war on terrorism on U.S. government military procurement expenditures and budgets; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; favorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us and our customers; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors; risks inherent in development and fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with export control regulations; risk of asset impairments and government claims related to our pension plan freeze; our ability to win new business and convert those orders to sales within the fiscal year in accordance with our annual operating plan; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed herein and from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
- 3 -


