FILE:COL/COL-8K-20071106122405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 
   
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) 
   
Appointment of Director
Effective November 5, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors elected General Ralph E. Eberhart as a member of the Board of Directors to hold office as a Class I Director until the Companys 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. At this time, General Eberhart has not been appointed to serve on any committees of the Board of Directors. General Eberhart is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any of its subsidiaries in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which General Eberhart has a direct or indirect material interest.
The Companys press release announcing this director election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Rockwell Collins elects new board member
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (Nov. 5, 2007) -
Rockwell Collins Board of Directors has elected Ralph E. Ed Eberhart to become its tenth member. He will fill a position that is subject to re-election at the companys annual shareowners meeting in February 2008.
Eberhart is currently the president of the Armed Forces Benefit Association (AFBA) and serves as chairman and director of 5Star Bank, 5Star Life Insurance Company, AFBA 5Star Investment Management Company and AFBA 5Star Fund, Inc. Prior to joining the AFBA, he served in the U.S. Air Force in various assignments over 36 years, with his last assignment being commander of the U.S. Northern Command and commander, North American Aerospace Defense Command.
Ed Eberhart brings a wealth of military and homeland security knowledge and experience to our board of directors, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones. His leadership ability, along with his military defense and security background, will prove invaluable to our board.
Eberhart is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy. He is also a command pilot with more than 5,000 flight hours. He served as commander of the U.S. Northern Command after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the U.S.
Rockwell Collins (NYSE: COL) is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit
www.rockwellcollins.com
.
 
 
 
 


