FILE:COL/COL-8K-20080910163246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. 
   
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Registrants press release dated September 10, 2008, regarding Rockwell Collins reaffirmation of financial guidance for fiscal year 2008 and announcement of financial guidance for fiscal year 2009 is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. 
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
News Release
 
Rockwell Collins reaffirms fiscal year 2008 financial guidance and announces financial guidance for fiscal year 2009
 
 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (September 10, 2008)
- Rockwell Collins, Inc. (NYSE: COL) today reaffirmed its fiscal year 2008 guidance that revenues will be about $4.75 billion and earnings per share should be in a range from $4.05 to $4.10, despite the impact of strikes at both Hawker Beechcraft and Boeing, two of its largest customers. The company estimates that, if the Boeing strike lasts approximately 45 days, the total impact of both strikes will be a reduction in sales of about $40 million, of which $30 million will be incurred in fiscal 2008s fourth quarter. Fiscal year 2008 guidance accommodates this impact and all other aspects of the companys guidance also remain unchanged.
For fiscal year 2009, the company anticipates revenues totaling between $5.05 billion and $5.1 billion, earnings per share in the range of $4.35 to $4.55, and cash flow from operations of $725 million to $775 million. Total company sales are expected to be about evenly split between Commercial Systems and Government Systems. Total segment operating margins are expected to be in the range of 22.5 to 23%.
With our strong market positions, diversification across many product and customer markets, and balance between Government and Commercial segments, we expect 2009 to be another year of solid growth for our company, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Clay Jones. Even with the challenging market conditions facing our Commercial Systems segment, we believe Rockwell Collins has the operating strength to deliver continued improvement in revenues, segment operating margins and earnings per share.
Details related to the projected performance of the companys Commercial and Government Systems businesses for fiscal year 2009 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Other assumptions integral to the development of the companys projected total segment operating margin, earnings per share and cash flow financial guidance for fiscal year 2009 are as follows:
The following is a summary of the companys financial guidance for fiscal year 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management, and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit
www.rockwellcollins.com
.
 
 
2
 
This press release contains statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the financial condition of our customers (including major U.S. airlines); the health of the global economy; delays related to the award of domestic and international contracts; the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; additional adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; the impact of the global war on terrorism on U.S. government military procurement expenditures and budgets; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; favorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; customer bankruptcies and profitability; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us and our customers including the duration of the strike at the Boeing Company; performance of our suppliers and subcontractors; risks inherent in development and fixed price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant disruption to air travel; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with export control regulations; risk of asset impairments and government claims related to our pension plan freeze; our ability to win new business and convert those orders to sales within the fiscal year in accordance with our annual operating plan; and the uncertainties of the outcome of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed herein and from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
3
 


