FILE:COL/COL-8K-20081215112853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02           Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d)           Appointment of Director
Effective December 12, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors elected David Lilley as a member of the Board of Directors to hold office as a Class I Director until the Companys 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners.  At this time, Mr. Lilley has not been appointed to serve on any committees of the Board of Directors.  Mr. Lilley is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any of its subsidiaries in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which Mr. Lilley has a direct or indirect material interest.
The Companys press release announcing this director election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Rockwell Collins elects David Lilley to its Board of Directors
Rockwell Collins Board of Directors has elected David Lilley to become its ninth member. He will fill a position that is subject to re-election at the companys annual shareowners meeting in 2011.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (Dec. 15, 2008) 
Lilley is currently Chairman and CEO of Cytec Industries, a global specialty chemicals and materials company, and is also a director of Arch Chemicals. He has announced his intention to retire at the end of this year and then will act as a non-executive director of Cytec Industries until April 2009.  Prior to joining Cytec as President in 1997, he was a vice president of American Home Products Corporation, responsible for its Global Medical Device business. He also served as vice president and a member of the Executive Committee of American Cyanamid Company.
We look forward to the operational and international experience that David Lilley will bring to our board as the leader of a global company, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones. Furthermore, his experience leading an innovative enterprise that has introduced leading edge technology in coatings and composite materials for aerospace and other applications will provide a valuable perspective to our Board.
Mr. Lilley holds a Master of Arts in chemical engineering from Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge University, England.
Rockwell Collins (NYSE: COL) is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit .
www.rockwellcollins.com
Media Contact:
Pam Tvrdy
319.295.0591
pjtvrdy@rockwellcollins.com
 


