FILE:COL/COL-8K-20100712152511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
Item 8.01.          Other Information.
Rockwell Collins, Inc. (the Company) designs, produces and supports communications and aviation electronics for military and commercial customers worldwide. The Company has two operating segments consisting of the Government Systems and Commercial Systems businesses.
Government Systems provides communication and electronic systems, products and services for airborne and surface applications to the U.S. Department of Defense, other government agencies, civil agencies, defense contractors and foreign ministries of defense. Product category sales for defense-related products in the Government Systems segment are delineated based upon the difference in underlying customer base and markets served.
Commercial Systems supplies aviation electronics systems, products, and services to customers located throughout the world. The customer base is comprised of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of commercial air transport, business and regional aircraft, commercial airlines, fractional and other business aircraft operators. Product category sales in the Commercial Systems segment are organized as air transport aviation electronics sales and business and regional aviation electronics sales. Commercial Systems product category sales are delineated based upon the difference in underlying customer base, size of aircraft, and markets served.
On April 23, 2010 the Company filed its Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Effective with the filing of the Companys March 31, 2010 Form 10-Q, the Company revised the presentation of Commercial Systems sales included within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The revised presentation quantifies the portion of OEM and aftermarket sales that relate to each of the Air Transport and the Business and Regional product categories. Previously, OEM sales and aftermarket sales were disclosed, but not by product category.
To enhance comparability and analysis, the following table presents the Companys sales by product category and type of product or service, by quarter, for the year ended September 30, 2009. Commercial Systems sales have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. The presentation of Government Systems sales by product category remains unchanged.
 
Wide-body in-flight entertainment products (Wide-body IFE) relate to sales of twin-aisle in-flight entertainment (IFE) products and systems to customers in the air transport aviation electronics market. In September 2005 the Company announced a strategic decision to shift R&D resources away from traditional IFE systems for next generation wide-body aircraft. The Company continues to execute on Wide-body IFE contracts and plans to support existing customers, which includes on-going service and support activities. Sales related to Wide-body IFE service and support activities are included in the air transport aviation electronics aftermarket.
(1)
The information included in the table above should be read in connection with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2009 (filed with the SEC on November 23, 2009) and the Companys Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010 (filed with the SEC on April 23, 2010).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


