FILE:COL/COL-8K-20100219143610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
On February 19, 2010, the Company announced the rotation of executive leadership assignments for three of its named executive officers.  The Companys press release announcing these management changes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  As a result of these changes, each of these three named executive officers is departing from his prior position described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2009 (Form 10-K) and is appointed to the new position noted in the attached press release effective February 22, 2010.  Information about each of these executives can be found in the Companys Form 10-K.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
Rockwell Collins announces senior leadership changes
Rockwell Collins today announced a series of strategic moves in senior leadership assignments. Reporting to Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones:
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (Feb. 19, 2010)
This rotation aligns with a change that combines elements of the companys former Services and International businesses to create the newly formed International and Service Solutions organization.
These changes will further enhance the degree of integration across Rockwell Collins, which has already proven to be one of our competitive advantages," said Jones. "They also will bring added focus and energy to our growing international business, while bolstering our overall level of operational excellencetwo key priorities to ensuring our company's future success.
Rockwell Collins (NYSE: COL) is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is delivered by nearly 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit .
www.rockwellcollins.com
Media contact:
Pam Tvrdy
319.295.0591
pjtvrdy@rockwellcollins.com
 
 
 
 
 


