FILE:COL/COL-8K-20110420085136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02       Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d)           Appointment of Director
Effective April 19, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors elected Jeffrey L. Turner as a member of the Board of Directors to hold office as a Class III Director until the Companys 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareowners.  Mr. Turner has also been appointed to serve on the Companys Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.  There are no disclosable transactions pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which Mr. Turner has a direct or indirect material interest.
The Companys press release announcing this director election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)           Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
Rockwell Collins elects Jeffrey Turner to board of directors
 
Rockwell Collins' board of directors has elected Jeffrey Turner to become its ninth member. He will fill a position that is subject to re-election at the company's annual shareowners meeting in 2013.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (April 20, 2011) 
 
Turner is currently pon the Board of Directors of INTRUST Financial Corp.  In his 38-year career, he has held positions of increasing responsibility at The Boeing Company and at Spirit AeroSystems.
resident and chief executive officer as well as a director of Spirit AeroSystems Holdings. He also serves
 
"As an active CEO, Jeff will provide a valuable perspective to our board, said Rockwell Collins Chairman, President and CEO Clay Jones. "He also brings outstanding operational credentials and substantial aerospace industry experience."
 
.
Turner holds a masters degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management. He also holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics and Computer Science and a Master of Science degree in Engineering Management Science, both from Wichita State University
 
Rockwell Collins (NYSE: COL) is a pioneer in the development and deployment of innovative communication and aviation electronic solutions for both commercial and government applications. Our expertise in flight deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is delivered by 20,000 employees, and a global service and support network that crosses 27 countries. To find out more, please visit .
www.rockwellcollins.com
Media Contact:
Pam Tvrdy-Cleary
319.295.0591 office
319.431.0951 mobile
pjtvrdy@rockwellcollins.com
Follow us on Twitter: @RockwellCollins
 
 
 


