FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20031222164741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events.
     On December 22, 2003, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that it has recently closed three transactions involving the sale of non-core assets in the company's midstream business and international holdings. The agreements comprise aggregate total sale prices exceeding $120 million.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
a) None
b) None
c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On December 22, 2003, Williams issued a press release publicly reporting the matters discussed herein. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
News Release
NYSE: WMB
     
Dec. 22, 2003
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced today that it has recently closed three transactions involving the sale of non-core assets in the company's midstream business and international holdings.
     Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "This is more progress toward simplifying our asset base to focus on natural gas production, processing and transportation in key growth markets such as the Rockies and deepwater Gulf of Mexico." The agreements comprise aggregate total sale prices of approximately $120 million. To date, Williams has already received approximately $97 million cash from the three sales, subject to closing adjustments related to a midstream transaction. The following transactions have closed since Dec. 5:
     Including today's announcement, Williams this year has sold or agreed to sell assets and certain contracts that have or will result in aggregate cash receipts of more than $3.4 billion.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' gas wells, pipelines and midstream facilities are concentrated in the Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
www.williams.com.
 
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


