FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20041130121243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 29, 2004, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that one of its units filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requesting authorization to construct and operate an estimated $333 million project to replace capacity on its Northwest Pipeline in western Washington. A copy of the press release announcing the same is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
a) None b) None c) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated November 29, 2004, publicly reporting the matters discussed herein, furnished pursuant to Item 8.01.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

TULSA, Okla.  A unit of Williams (NYSE:WMB) filed an application today with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requesting authorization to construct and operate an estimated $333 million project to replace capacity on its Northwest Pipeline in western Washington.
The previously announced Capacity Replacement Project involves the abandonment of 268 miles of 26-inch pipeline between Sumas and Washougal, Wash., and the construction of approximately 80 miles of 36-inch pipeline in four sections along the same pipeline corridor.
Pending FERC approval, construction on the project will primarily occur in 2006, with an in-service date of November 2006.
The new pipeline and addition of 10,760 net horsepower of compression will replace most of the 360 dekatherms per day of capacity attributable to the existing 26-inch pipeline.
All of Northwest's transmission capacity to the south through Sumas and to the north through Washougal is reserved under long-term, maximum-rate, firm transportation contracts. Costs associated with the Capacity Replacement Project would be rolled-in to the Northwest Pipeline customer rates.
"The Capacity Replacement Project on Northwest Pipeline is consistent with existing long-term contractual requirements with Northwest's customers and will provide essential transmission infrastructure to serve future market needs," said Doug Whisenant, senior vice president of Williams' natural gas pipeline business.
Upon completion of the replacement facilities, Northwest will remove the 26-inch pipeline facilities from service without a disruption of service to customers.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. The company also manages a wholesale power business. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Southern California and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at .
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
www.williams.com
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


