FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20040609150625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
a) None
b) None
c) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated June 9, 2004, publicly reporting the matters discussed herein, furnished pursuant to Item 9.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
          On June 9, 2004, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") and its wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Production RMT Company, announced the expiration, as of 5 p.m. Eastern on June 8, 2004, of their cash tender offers relating to approximately $1.34 billion aggregate principal amount of notes pursuant to their previously announced cash tender offers and consent solicitation. The companies have accepted for payment all notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offers. As of the expiration of the offers, the companies received tenders of notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.171 billion.
          A copy of the press release announcing the same is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Date:   June 9, 2004
          TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Production RMT Co., today announced the expiration, as of 5 p.m. Eastern on June 8, 2004, of their cash tender offers relating to approximately $1.34 billion aggregate principal amount of notes pursuant to their previously announced cash tender offers and consent solicitation.
          The companies have accepted for payment all notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offers.
          As of the expiration of the offers, the companies received tenders of notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.171 billion, including the following:
 
          In conjunction with the tendered notes and related consents, the companies paid premiums of approximately $62 million. As a result of the premiums, as well as related fees and expenses, Williams expects to record a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $75 million in the second quarter.
          Lehman Brothers Inc. served as the lead dealer manager; Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. served as co-dealer managers, and D.F. King & Co., Inc. served as the information agent for the tender offers.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' gas wells, pipelines and midstream facilities are concentrated in the Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


