FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20041118184810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On November 16, 2004, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") increased the size of the Board to eleven and elected Juanita H. Hinshaw to the Williams Board of Directors as a Class I director, to serve until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Board also appointed Ms. Hinshaw to serve on the Audit Committee and the Finance Committee. Ms. Hinshaw was identified through an external executive search firm.
     Ms. Hinshaw, 59, joined privately held Graybar Electric Co. of Clayton, Missouri, in May 2000 as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Graybar distributes lighting, cable and wire products from more than 4,500 manufacturers.
     Prior to Graybar, Ms. Hinshaw was with Monsanto for 15 years, opting for early retirement in 1999 after serving as treasurer. As Monsanto's treasurer, her duties included worldwide cash management, banking, worldwide finance and investments, financial planning and risk management.
     There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Hinshaw and any other person pursuant to which she was selected as a director of Williams.
     Ms. Hinshaw has no prior relationships or other transactions with Williams or its management.
     A copy of the press release publicly announcing Ms. Hinshaw's election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") wishes to disclose for Regulation FD purposes its slide presentation, filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2, utilized during a public Power tutorial conference call and webcast on the morning of November 18, 2004.
     The slide presentation discloses certain financial measures, EBITDA and recurring earnings and recurring segment profit, that are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. EBITDA represents the sum of net income (loss), net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, less income (loss) from discontinued operations. Recurring earnings and recurring segment profit provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's results from ongoing operations. The slide presentation includes a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Management uses these financial measures because they are widely accepted financial indicators used by investors to compare company performance. In addition, management believes that these measures provide investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of the Company's assets and the cash that the business is generating. Neither EBITDA nor recurring earnings and recurring segment profit are intended to represent cash flows for the period, nor are they presented as an alternative to net income or cash flow from operations. They should not be
Table of Contents
considered in isolation or as substitutes for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
     Certain financial information in the slide presentation is also shown including Power mark-to-market adjustments. The slide presentation includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest GAAP financial measures. Previously the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting with respect to its Power segment as a result of the Company's stated intent to exit the Power business. The Company ceased efforts to market the sale of Power during the third quarter 2004, and now qualifies for hedge accounting. Hedge accounting reduces earnings volatility associated with Power's portfolio of certain derivative hedging instruments. Prior to the adoption of hedge accounting, these derivative hedging instruments were accounted for on a mark-to-market basis with the change in fair value recognized in earnings each period. Management uses the mark-to-market adjustments to better reflect Power's results on a basis that is more consistent with Power's portfolio cash flows and to aid investor understanding. The adjustments reverse forward unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses from derivatives and add realized gains or losses from derivatives for which mark-to-market income has been previously recognized, with the effect that the resulting adjusted segment profit is presented as if mark-to-market accounting had never been applied to designated hedges or other derivatives. The measure is limited by the fact that it does not reflect potential unrealized future losses or gains on derivative contracts. However, management compensates for this limitation since reported earnings do reflect unrealized gains and losses of derivative contracts. Overall, management believes the mark-to-market adjustments provide an alternative measure that more closely matches realized cash flows for the Power segment.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On November 16, 2004, Williams announced that it has completed the purchase and retirement of approximately $200 million in 5.935 percent senior notes due 2007. Approximately $1.1 billion of these notes were issued in January 2002 as a component of Income PACSSM, in connection with Williams' FELINE PACS (NYSE:WMB PrI) offering. A copy of the press release publicly announcing the note purchase and retirement is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated by reference herein.
     On November 17, 2004, the Williams Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of five cents per share on its common stock payable December 27, 2004, to the holders of record of shares of such common stock at the close of business on December 10, 2004. A copy of the press release publicly announcing the dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) None
     (b) None
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NYSE:WMB
Nov. 16, 2004
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Juanita H. Hinshaw has been elected to the Williams (NYSE:WMB) board of directors. The action increases the size of the Williams board to 11.
     Hinshaw, 59, joined privately held Graybar Electric Co. of Clayton, Mo., in May 2000 as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Graybar has annual sales of approximately $4 billion, distributing lighting, cable and wire products from more than 4,500 manufacturers.
     Prior to Graybar, Hinshaw was with Monsanto for 15 years, opting for early retirement in 1999 after serving as treasurer. As Monsanto's treasurer, her duties included worldwide cash management, banking, worldwide finance and investments, financial planning and risk management.
     "Juanita has considerable credentials in money, finance and management. She comes to Williams at an opportune time," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
     "We are poised for growth again after a two-year effort to strengthen our balance sheet. We've driven down our expenses, dramatically reduced our debt and recently increased our expected cash flow for 2004," said Malcolm.
     Hinshaw has a bachelor's degree in business administration and economics from the University of North Carolina and completed Harvard's advanced management program.
     Hinshaw, who resides in St. Louis, is a native of Asheboro, N.C. In addition to the Williams board, she serves on boards for a Missouri-based pipeline services firm and an Illinois-based steel producer.
     She also has served as the chairman of the National Association of Corporate Treasurers and a board member of the Conference Board's Council of Corporate Treasurers and The American Management Association's Board and Finance Council.
     In the community, Hinshaw has been honored by the YWCA of Metropolitan St. Louis and remains active in the United Way, where she has served for the past 15 years in various leadership roles.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. The company also manages a wholesale power business. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific
 
Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Southern California and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at
www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Nov. 16, 2004
Exhibit 99.3
NYSE:WMB
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) has completed the purchase and retirement of approximately $200 million in 5.935 percent senior notes due 2007.
     Approximately $1.1 billion of these notes were issued in January 2002 as a component of Income PACS, in connection with Williams' FELINE PACS (NYSE:WMB PrI) offering.
SM
     Williams previously retired $827 million of the notes through an exchange offer that expired in October. Only $73.1 million of the original $1.1 billion obligation remains outstanding and is due on Feb. 16, 2007.
     With today's action, Williams has reduced its total long-term debt from approximately $8.1 billion to $7.9 billion.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. The company also manages a wholesale power business. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Southern California and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
Exhibit 99.4
NYSE: WMB
Nov. 17, 2004
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams' (NYSE:WMB) board of directors today approved a regular dividend of 5 cents per share on the company's common stock, payable on Dec. 27, 2004, to holders of record at the close of business on Dec. 10, 2004.
     "Our restructuring is nearly complete. We've driven down our debt. We've increased our cash flow from operations. And we've made disciplined investments in our businesses," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
     "Raising the dividend is another sign of our financial progress. The board is confident in our cash flow and our ongoing ability to increase shareholder value while continuing to improve our credit ratings," Malcolm added.
     Today's declaration by the board raises the dividend five-fold. The company previously had paid a penny per share since the third quarter of 2002, when Williams reduced its dividend to conserve cash.
     Since late 2002, Williams has reduced its debt by more than $6 billion. Williams' businesses also have produced net cash from operations of approximately $770 million in 2003 and $1.1 billion for the first nine months of 2004.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. The company also manages a wholesale power business. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Southern California and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


