FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20040817141900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
a) None
b) None
c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On August 17, 2004, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that approximately $513 million aggregate principal amount of notes have been validly tendered in connection with its cash tender offer and consent solicitation with respect to any and all of its 8 5/8 percent Senior Notes due 2010.
     The amount tendered represents a sufficient number of consents required to approve certain amendments to the indenture governing the notes. The amendments to the indenture will eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants and certain events of default contained in the indenture governing the notes. The supplemental indenture incorporating the amendments, as described in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated August 5, 2004, will be executed by Williams and the indenture trustee as soon as practical, but the amendments will not become operative unless the tender offer is consummated in accordance with its terms.
     A copy of the press release announcing the same is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
Aug. 17, 2004
Date:     
     TULSA, Okla.  In connection with the previously announced cash tender offer and consent solicitation with respect to any and all of Williams' (NYSE:WMB) 8 5/8 percent Senior Notes due 2010, approximately $513 million aggregate principal amount of notes have been validly tendered.
     The amount tendered represents a sufficient number of consents required to approve certain amendments to the indenture governing the notes.
     The amendments to the indenture will eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants and certain events of default contained in the indenture governing the notes.
     The supplemental indenture incorporating the amendments, as described in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated Aug. 5, 2004, will be executed by Williams and the indenture trustee as soon as practical, but the amendments will not become operative unless the tender offer is consummated in accordance with its terms.
     This press release constitutes the announcement of the withdrawal deadline as described in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement. Holders who have validly tendered notes as of this time are no longer permitted to withdraw their notes and the related consents. In addition, holders who tender notes between now and 5 p.m. Eastern on Thursday, Sept. 2, 2004  the expiration time for the offer  will not be permitted to withdraw their notes and the related consents.
     Holders who have not yet tendered their Notes may tender prior to 5 p.m. Eastern on Aug. 18, 2004, to receive the total consideration, including the consent payment, each as described in Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, or until the expiration time to receive the tender offer consideration as described in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement.
     Williams has retained Citigroup Global Markets Inc. to serve as the lead dealer manager and solicitation agent. Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and Lehman Brothers Inc. are the co-dealer managers and solicitation agents. Global Bondholder Services Corporation is the information agent for the tender offer.
     Requests for documents may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation by telephone at (866) 924-2200 or (212) 430-3774 or in writing at 65 Broadway, Suite 704, New York, NY, 10006. Questions regarding the tender offer may be directed to Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at (800) 558-3745.
 
     This press release shall not constitute a tender offer to purchase or a solicitation of acceptance of the tender offer, which may be made only pursuant to the terms of the tender offer to purchase. In any jurisdiction where the laws require the tender offer to be made by a licensed broker or dealer, the tender offer shall be deemed made on behalf of the company by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or one or more registered brokers or dealers under the laws of such jurisdiction.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' gas wells, pipelines and midstream facilities are concentrated in the Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at .
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
www.williams.com
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
     TENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of August 17, 2004 (this ) between THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, a New York banking corporation (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, National Association (successor in interest to the First National Bank of Chicago)), as trustee (the ), for the securities issued under the Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 10, 2003 (the ""), which supplements the Indenture dated as of November 10, 1997 (the as so supplemented by the Ninth Supplemental Indenture and as further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), each between the Company and the Trustee.
"Supplemental Indenture"
"Company"
"Trustee"
Ninth Supplemental Indenture
"Base Indenture,"
Indenture
     A. Pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Company established and issued a new series of its Securities, entitled the 8 5/8% Senior Notes due 2010 (the ).
"Securities"
     B. Pursuant to and in accordance with Section 8.2 of the Base Indenture, the Company has obtained the written consent of the holders of the Securities representing not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to the amendments to the Indenture set forth in this Supplemental Indenture.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows:
     SECTION 1. Terms defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as therein defined.
Defined Terms.
     SECTION 2. At such time as the Company delivers written notice to the Trustee and Global Bondholder Services Corporation, the Depositary for the Securities, that the Securities tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Company's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated August 5, 2004 have been accepted for purchase:
Amendments to Indenture.
     (a) The definition of "UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARY" in Section 1.01 of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture shall be amended by deleting the text of such definition in its entirety and replacing it with the following text:
     "UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARY' means (1) any Securitization Subsidiary or (2) any Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a Board Resolution. Any designation of a Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee the Board Resolution giving effect to such designation. The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation."
     (b) Section 3.02 of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture shall be amended by deleting the text of such Section in its entirety and replacing it with the following text:
     "Section 3.02. Commission Reports. The Company shall file with the Trustee copies of such information, documents, or reports, if any, that are required to be filed pursuant to Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939."
 
     (c) The following Sections (or Subsections, as applicable) of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, and any corresponding provisions in the Securities, hereby are deleted in their entirety and replaced with "Intentionally Omitted," and all references made thereto throughout the Ninth Supplemental Indenture and the Securities hereby are deleted in their entirety:
     (d) Section 3.10 of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture shall be amended by deleting the text of such Section in its entirety and replacing it with the following text:
     "Section 3.10. Designation Of Restricted And Unrestricted Subsidiaries. The Board of Directors of the Company may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default. The Board of Directors of the Company may redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary if the redesignation would not cause a Default."
     (e) Subclauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of Section 4.02 of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, and any corresponding provisions in the Securities, hereby are deleted in their entirety and replaced with "Intentionally Omitted," and all references made thereto throughout the Ninth Supplemental Indenture and the Securities hereby are deleted in their entirety.
     (f) All references made to a provision in the Ninth Supplemental Indenture or the Securities deleted pursuant to the amendments set forth in Subsections (a) through (e) of this Section 2 hereby are deleted in their entirety from the Ninth Supplemental Indenture and the Securities, and any definitions used exclusively in the provisions of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture deleted pursuant to the amendments set forth in Subsections (a) through (e) of this Section 2 hereby are deleted in their entirety from the Indenture.
     (g) Notwithstanding anything in the Ninth Supplemental Indenture to the contrary, Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture shall apply to the Securities.
     SECTION 3. Except as hereby otherwise expressly provided, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and all the terms, provisions and conditions thereof shall be and remain in full force and effect.
The Indenture Ratified.
     SECTION 4. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
     SECTION 5. This Supplemental Indenture is executed as and shall constitute an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and shall be construed in connection with and as part of the Indenture.
This Supplemental Indenture is a Supplement to The Indenture.
     SECTION 6. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CHOICE OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
 
     SECTION 7. Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments executed and delivered after the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture may refer to the Indenture without making specific reference to this Supplemental Indenture, but nevertheless all such references shall include this Supplemental Indenture unless the context otherwise requires.
References to This Supplemental Indenture.
     SECTION 8. The Indenture shall be deemed to be modified as herein provided, but except as modified hereby, the Indenture shall continue in full force and effect. The Indenture as modified hereby shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Effect of This Supplemental Indenture.
     SECTION 9. In the event that any provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
     SECTION 10. If any provisions hereof limit, qualify or conflict with any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the ) required under the TIA to be a part of and govern this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the TIA shall control. If any provision hereof modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that pursuant to the TIA may be so modified or excluded, the provisions of the TIA as so modified or excluded hereby shall apply.
Trust Indenture Act.
"TIA"
     SECTION 11. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals.
     SECTION 12. This Supplemental Indenture shall become effective upon execution by the Company and the Trustee.
Effectiveness.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.


