FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20040601115652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated May 27, 2004, publicly reporting the matters discussed herein, furnished pursuant to Item 9.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On May 27, 2004, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that it has finalized an agreement to effectively release the company from certain historical indemnities. The indemnities are related to Williams' previous ownership of operations such as the Williams Pipe Line system that are now owned by Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:MMP). Under the terms of the agreement, Williams will pay $117.5 million to Magellan through four structured annual payments beginning on July 1 this year and ending on July 1, 2007. In exchange, Magellan is releasing Williams from certain historical indemnities, primarily related to environmental remediation.
     A copy of the press release announcing the same is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Williams has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
May 27, 2004
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) announced today that it has finalized an agreement to effectively release the company from certain historical indemnities.
     The indemnities are related to Williams' previous ownership of operations such as the Williams Pipe Line system that are now owned by Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:MMP).
     Williams in June 2003 divested its interests in Magellan but retained certain environmental and other indemnification obligations, as previously disclosed in Williams' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of the indemnities, Williams deferred a portion of the gain that it otherwise would have recognized on the sale of its Magellan interests.
     Under the terms of the agreement, Williams will pay $117.5 million to Magellan through four structured annual payments beginning on July 1 this year and ending on July 1, 2007. In exchange, Magellan is releasing Williams from certain historical indemnities, primarily related to environmental remediation.
     Because the value of the payments to Magellan approximates the remaining amount of the deferred gain, the agreement will not materially affect Williams' earnings or its previously announced earnings or cash flow guidance.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. Williams' gas wells, pipelines and midstream facilities are concentrated in the Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at www.williams.com.
 
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


