FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20050718151048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On July 15, 2005, The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") named Ted T. Timmermans as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Timmermans, 48, has held several increasingly responsible finance positions within Williams, ranging from energy-related start-up companies to established interstate natural gas pipelines since 1978. Previously, Mr. Timmermans was Assistant Controller with responsibilities for SEC financial reporting and providing financial consulting to Williams business units. On July 15, 2005, Williams also announced that Gary R. Belitz, previously the Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, is assuming a new position as Vice President, Finance & Accounting for Williams Exploration and Production business, effective August 5, 2005. Williams' press release publicly announcing these organizational changes is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference .
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None (b) None (c) Exhibits: Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated July 15, 2005, publicly reporting the organizational changes as discussed herein.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) today named Ted Timmermans as vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer.
"Ted Timmermans brings considerable finance and accounting experience to this role as we sustain our focus on financial discipline and excellence in financial reporting," said Don Chappel, chief financial officer for Williams. "Ted has had a very successful finance career at Williams and has strong technical knowledge of financial accounting."
Timmermans, 48, has held several increasingly responsible finance positions within Williams, ranging from energy-related start-up companies to established interstate natural gas pipelines.
Previously, Timmermans was assistant controller with responsibilities for SEC financial reporting and providing financial consulting to Williams' business units.
Timmermans joined Williams in 1978 in an internal auditor capacity, and held several positions within Williams' various subsidiaries, as well as serving in corporate finance and accounting positions.
He holds a bachelor of science degree in Accounting, a master of Business Administration and a master of science in Taxation. A certified public accountant, he is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Oklahoma Society of Certified Public Accountants.
Timmermans succeeds Gary Belitz, who is assuming a new position as vice president, Finance & Accounting for Williams' Exploration and Production business, effective August 5, 2005.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas. The company also manages a wholesale power business. Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Southern California and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


