FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20060112113706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") today announced the expiration, at 5:00 p.m. New York City time on Wednesday, January 11, 2006 (the "Expiration Date"), of its previously announced offer to pay a cash premium to holders of any and all of up to $299,987,000 principal amount outstanding 5.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2033 who elected to convert their debentures to shares of Williams' common stock.
As of 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the Expiration Date, holders of $213,941,900 aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Debentures (constituting 71.3% of the principal amount of the outstanding Debentures) had delivered valid tenders pursuant to the Offer.
A copy of the press release announcing the same is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated January 12, 2006, publicly reporting the matters discussed herein, filed pursuant to Item 8.01.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NYSE: WMB
 
Jan. 12, 2006
Date:
     TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE:WMB) today announced the expiration of its previously announced offer to pay a cash premium to holders of any and all of its approximately $300 million principal amount outstanding 5.50 percent Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2033 who elected to convert their debentures to shares of Williams' common stock.
     The conversion offer expired at 5 p.m. Eastern on Jan. 11, 2006. As of 5 p.m. Eastern on the expiration date, holders of $213,941,900 aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debentures, constituting 71.3 percent of the principal amount of the outstanding debentures, had delivered valid tenders pursuant to the conversion offer, all of which were accepted for exchange by Williams.
     The consideration for the accepted debentures will be delivered promptly to tendering holders by the conversion agent for the conversion offer.
     Lehman Brothers Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Co. acted as dealer managers. D.F. King & Co., Inc. acted as the information agent. JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association acted as the conversion agent for the conversion offer.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, primarily finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.
About Williams (NYSE:WMB)
 
Williams' gas wells, pipelines and midstream facilities are concentrated in the Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at
www.williams.com.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


