FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20071012150526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On May 21, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. We have revised certain historical financial information previously included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007, to reflect the results of operations and financial position of our power business as discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
The following items of the Form 10-K have been revised for the discontinued operations described above and are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
The following items of the Form 10-Q have been revised for the discontinued operations described above and are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
The revised items of the Form 10-K and Form 10-Q described above have been updated for only the power business discontinued operations. We have not otherwise updated for activities or events occurring after the dates these items were originally presented in the Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. This Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2007, and other Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
October 12, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 12
 
 

 
Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements on Form S-3 and Form S-4, and related prospectuses of The Williams Companies, Inc. and in the following registration statements on Form S-8 of our report dated February 22, 2007, except for the matters related to the sale of power business described in Note 2, as to which the date is October 8, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of The Williams Companies, Inc. included in this Current Report (Form 8-K).
     Form S-3:
Registration Statement Nos. 333-20927, 333-20929, 333-29185, 333-35097, 333-70394, 333-85540, 333-106504, and 333-134293
     Form S-4:
Registration Statement Nos. 333-57416, 333-63202, 333-85568, and 333-129779
     Form S-8:
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Tulsa, Oklahoma October 8, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
     The following financial data as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and for the three years ended December 31, 2006, are an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and related notes. All other amounts have been prepared from our financial records. Certain amounts below have been recast or reclassified. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 for discussion of changes in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Information concerning significant trends in the financial condition and results of operations is contained in of this report.
Management's Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Sale of Power Business
     On May 21, 2007, we announced our intent to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. This pending sale reduces the risk and complexity of our overall business model and allows our ongoing efforts to focus our investment capital and growth efforts on our core natural gas businesses. The sale is expected to close in 2007.
     The pending sale of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, includes tolling contracts, full requirements contracts, tolling resales, heat rate options, related hedges and other related assets including certain property and software. Our natural gas-fired electric generating plant located in Hazleton, Pennsylvania (Hazleton), is currently being marketed for sale. These operations are part of our previously reported Power segment and are now reflected in our results of operations as discontinued operations. (See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     Other continuing components of our former Power segment are now being reported as follows:
General
     We are primarily a natural gas company, engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Exploration & Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream), and Gas Marketing Services. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of reporting segments.)
     Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion of critical accounting estimates, discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this document [Exhibit 99.1].
Overview of 2006
     Our plan for 2006 was focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives and highlights of this plan included:
 
     Our 2006 decreased to $347.0 million, as compared to $472.1 million in 2005. Our was $1,889.6 million in 2006 compared to $1,449.9 million in 2005. These comparative results reflect the resolution of certain legacy litigation issues partially offset by the benefit of strong natural gas liquid margins. In addition to achieving these results, the following represent significant actions or events that occurred during the year:
income from continuing operations
net cash provided by operating activities
Recent Events
     In June 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired 25.1 percent of our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $360 million. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $150 million private debt offering of senior unsecured notes due 2011 and an equity offering of approximately $225 million in net proceeds. In December 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired the remaining 74.9 percent interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.223 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $600 million private debt offering of senior unsecured notes due 2017, a private equity offering of approximately $350 million of common and Class B units, and a public equity offering of approximately $294 million in net proceeds. The debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively. Williams Four Corners LLC owns certain gathering, processing and treating assets in the San Juan Basin in Colorado and New Mexico.
     In December 2006, Northwest Pipeline completed and placed into service its capacity replacement project in the state of Washington. The project involved abandoning 268 miles of 26-inch pipeline and replacing it with approximately 80 miles of 36-inch pipeline constructed in four sections along the same pipeline corridor. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline modified five existing compressor stations and created additional net horsepower.
     Northwest Pipeline and Transco have each filed a general rate case with the FERC. Northwest Pipeline reached a settlement in its pending rate case. The settlement is subject to FERC approval, which is expected by mid-2007. The new rates for Northwest Pipeline are effective in January 2007, subject to refund. The new rates for Transco are expected to be effective in March 2007, subject to refund.
     In April 2006, Transco issued $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. In October 2006, Transco completed an offer to exchange all of these notes for substantially identical notes registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In April 2006, we retired a secured floating-rate term loan for $488.9 million, including outstanding principal and accrued interest. The loan was due in 2008 and secured by substantially all of the assets of Williams Production RMT Company. The loan was retired using a combination of cash and revolving credit borrowings.
     In May 2006, we replaced our $1.275 billion secured revolving credit facility with a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The new facility contains similar terms and financial covenants as the secured facility, but contains certain additional restrictions. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
     In May 2006, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of 9 cents per share of common stock, which reflects an increase of 20 percent compared with the 7.5 cents per share paid in each of the three prior quarters.
     In June 2006, Northwest Pipeline issued $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. In October 2006, Northwest Pipeline completed an offer to exchange all of these notes for substantially identical notes registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In June 2006, we reached an agreement-in-principle to settle class-action securities litigation filed on behalf of purchasers of our securities between July 24, 2000, and July 22, 2002, for a total payment of $290 million to plaintiffs. We funded our $145 million portion of the settlement with cash-on-hand in November 2006, with the balance funded directly by our insurers. We recorded a pre-tax charge for approximately $161 million in second quarter 2006. This settlement did not have a material effect on our liquidity position. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     On July 31, 2006, and August 1, 2006, we received a verdict in civil litigation related to a contractual dispute surrounding certain natural gas processing facilities known as Gulf Liquids. We recorded a pre-tax charge for approximately $88 million in second quarter 2006 related to this loss contingency. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     Our property insurance coverage levels and premiums were revised during the second quarter of 2006. In general, our coverage levels have decreased while our premiums have increased. These changes reflect general trends in our industry due to hurricane-related damages in recent years.
     In November 2005, we initiated an offer to convert our 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. In January 2006, we converted approximately $220.2 million of the debentures in exchange for 20.2 million shares of common stock, a $25.8 million cash premium, and $1.5 million of accrued interest.
Outlook for 2007
     Our plan for 2007 is focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives of this plan include:
     Potential risks and/or obstacles that could prevent us from achieving these objectives include:
 
     We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining our desired level of at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities.
     
New Accounting Standards and Emerging Issues
     Accounting standards that have been issued and are not yet effective may have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future. These include:
     FIN 48 prescribes guidance for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. To recognize a tax position, the enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis, that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
     We adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of applying the Interpretation will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The net impact of the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 is expected to be in the range of a $10 million to $20 million decrease in retained earnings.
     See in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other recently issued accounting standards.
Recent Accounting Standards
Critical Accounting Estimates
     The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts therein. We have discussed the following accounting estimates and assumptions as well as related disclosures with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations.
     
Revenue Recognition  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
     We hold a substantial portfolio of energy trading and nontrading contracts for a variety of purposes. We review these contracts to determine whether they are nonderivatives or derivatives. If they are derivatives, we further assess whether the contracts qualify for either cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchases and normal sales exception.
     The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivative is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting cash flows attributed to the hedged risk. We also assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. This assessment requires us to exercise judgment and consider a wide variety of factors in addition to our intent, including internal and external forecasts, historical experience, changing market and business conditions, our financial and operational ability to carry out the forecasted transaction, the length of time until the forecasted transaction is projected to occur, and the quantity of the forecasted transaction. In addition, we compare actual cash flows to those that were expected from the underlying risk. If a hedged forecasted transaction is not
 
probable of occurring, or if the derivative contract is not expected to be highly effective, the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting.
     For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, we do not reflect changes in their fair value in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. For those that have not been designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting, we recognize the net change in their fair value in income currently (marked to market).
     For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, we prospectively discontinue hedge accounting and recognize future changes in fair value directly in earnings if we no longer expect the hedge to be highly effective, or if we believe that the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring. If the forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, we must also reclass amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income into earnings in addition to prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting. If the effectiveness of the derivative improves and is again expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributed to the hedged risk, or if the forecasted transaction again becomes probable, we may prospectively re-designate the derivative as a hedge of the underlying risk.
     Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. In determining whether a derivative is eligible for this exception, we assess whether the contract provides for the purchase or sale of a commodity that will be physically delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. In making this assessment, we consider numerous factors, including the quantities provided under the contract in relation to our business needs, delivery locations per the contract in relation to our operating locations, duration of time between entering the contract and delivery, past trends and expected future demand, and our past practices and customs with regard to such contracts. Additionally, we assess whether it is probable that the contract will result in physical delivery of the commodity and not net financial settlement.
     The fair value of derivative contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which transactions are executed. We also incorporate assumptions and judgments about counterparty performance and credit considerations in our determination of their fair value. Contracts are executed in the following environments:
     The number of transactions executed without quoted market prices is limited. We estimate the fair value of these contracts by using readily available price quotes in similar markets and other market analyses. The fair value of all derivative contracts is continually subject to change as the underlying commodity market changes and our assumptions and judgments change.
     Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Energy Trading Activities within Item 7 and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
     
Oil- and Gas-Producing Activities
     We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil- and gas-producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results:
 
     The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, 99.9 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. A revision of our reserve estimates within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. However, reserve estimate revisions would impact our depreciation and depletion expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in oil and gas reserves for each basin would change our annual expense between approximately $25 million and $31 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories.
depreciation, depletion and amortization
     Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. An unfavorable change in the forward price curve within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill.
     
Contingent Liabilities
     We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
     
Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Contingencies
     We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry-forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2006, we have approximately $926 million of deferred tax assets for which a $36 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we considered forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. Based on our projections, we believe that it is probable that we can utilize our year-end 2006 federal tax net operating losses carryovers and charitable contribution carryovers prior to their expiration. We do not expect to be able to utilize $36 million of foreign deferred tax assets related to carryovers. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets.
     We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our various filing positions, we record a liability
 
for probable tax contingencies. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a significant impact on net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted.
     
Pension and Postretirement Obligations
     We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan expense and obligations are calculated by a third-party actuary and are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one-percentage-point change in the specified assumption.
     The expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined by combining a review of historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans' Investment Policy Statement, and the capital market projections provided by our independent investment consultant for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested as well as the target weightings of each asset classification. These rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market swings do not significantly impact the rates. Changes to our target asset allocation would also impact these rates. Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans is 7.75 percent for 2006 and was 8.5 percent from 2002-2005. Over the past ten years, our actual average return on plan assets for our pension plans has been approximately 7.9 percent.
     The discount rates are used to discount future benefit cash flows to today's dollars. Decreases in these rates increase the obligation and, generally, increase the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality corporate bonds.
     The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long-term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes pension obligation and expense to increase.
     The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on our actual historical cost rates that are adjusted for expected changes in the health care industry.
 
Results of Operations
     
Consolidated Overview
     The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2006. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion.
 
     
2006 vs. 2005
     The decrease in is primarily due to lower natural gas realized revenues at Gas Marketing Services associated with lower natural gas sales prices. Additionally, the effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges had an unfavorable impact on revenues. Partially offsetting these decreases are increased crude, olefin and natural gas liquid (NGL) marketing revenues, higher NGL production revenue at Midstream and increased production revenue at Exploration & Production.
revenues
     The decrease in is largely due to reduced natural gas purchase prices at Gas Marketing Services. Partially offsetting these decreases are increased crude, olefin and NGL marketing purchases and operating expenses at Midstream and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization and lease operating expense at Exploration & Production.
costs and operating expenses
     The increase in is primarily due to increased personnel costs, insurance expense, higher information systems support costs and the absence of a $17.1 million reduction of pension expense at Gas Pipeline in 2005. Additionally, Exploration & Production experienced higher costs due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity.
selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses
 
     within in 2006 includes:
Other (income) expense  net
operating income
     within in 2005 includes:
Other (income) expense  net
operating income
     decreased primarily due to the absence of $13.8 million of insurance settlement charges in 2005 associated with certain insurance coverage allocation issues.
General corporate expenses
     The is the result of settling class-action securities litigation filed on behalf of purchasers of our securities between July 24, 2000 and July 22, 2002.
securities litigation settlement and related costs
     in 2006 includes $22 million in interest expense associated with our Gulf Liquids litigation contingency.
Interest accrued  net
     The increase in is due to:
investing income
These increases are partially offset by:
     in 2006 includes $25.8 million in premiums and $1.2 million in fees related to the January 2006 debt conversion and $4.4 million of accelerated amortization of debt expenses related to the retirement of the debt secured by assets of Williams Production RMT Company.
Early debt retirement costs
     The increase in is primarily due to the growth of Williams Partners L.P., our consolidated master limited partnership.
minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries
     changed favorably primarily due to decreased pre-tax income. The effective income tax rate for 2006 is slightly higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, the effect of taxes on foreign operations, nondeductible convertible debenture expenses and an accrual for income tax
Provision for income taxes
 
contingencies, partially offset by the favorable resolution of federal income tax litigation and the utilization of charitable contribution carryovers not previously benefited. The 2006 effective income tax rate has been increased by an adjustment to increase overall deferred income tax liabilities. The effective income tax rate for 2005 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, nondeductible expenses, and the inability to utilize charitable contribution carryovers. The 2005 effective income tax rate was reduced by an adjustment to reduce overall deferred income tax liabilities and favorable settlements on federal and state income tax matters. (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     in 2006 includes:
Income (loss) from discontinued operations
     in 2005 includes a $154.8 million net-of-tax loss related to our discontinued power business. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Income (loss) from discontinued operations
     in 2005 is due to the implementation of FIN 47. (See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle
     
2005 vs. 2004
     The increase in revenues is due primarily to higher natural gas prices and production volumes sold and gas management income at Exploration & Production, higher natural gas prices realized at Gas Marketing Services, and increased NGL prices and crude marketing revenue at Midstream.
     The increase in is due primarily to increased natural gas purchase prices at Gas Marketing Services. Also contributing to the increase were higher crude marketing costs and NGL production costs at Midstream in addition to increased depreciation, depletion and amortization and gas management expense at Exploration & Production.
costs and operating expenses
     The decrease in is primarily due to the $17.1 million reduction in expenses at Gas Pipeline to record the cumulative impact of a correction to pension expense attributable to the periods 2003 and 2004 and a $9.7 reduction of bad debt expense at Gas Marketing Services resulting from the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Partially offsetting these items is increased staffing costs at Exploration & Production in support of increased operational drilling activity.
SG&A expenses
     within in 2004 includes:
Other (income) expense  net,
operating income,
 
     The increase in is due primarily to the $13.8 million of expense related to the settlement of certain insurance coverage issues and a $16 million increase in outside legal costs associated primarily with securities class action matters.
general corporate expenses
     The decrease in is due primarily to lower average borrowing levels in 2005 as compared to 2004.
interest accrued  net
     The decrease in is due primarily to a $76.4 million increase in impairment charges on our investment in Longhorn, a $13.9 million increase in Longhorn equity losses, and the $23 million impairment of our Aux Sable equity investment. Partially offsetting these decreases are the following increases:
investing income
     include premiums, fees and expenses related to the retirement of debt.
Early debt retirement costs
     changed unfavorably primarily due to increased pre-tax income in 2005 as compared to 2004. The effective income tax rate for 2005 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, nondeductible expenses and the inability to utilize charitable contribution carryovers. The 2005 effective income tax rate has been reduced by an adjustment to reduce the overall deferred income tax liabilities and favorable settlements on federal and state income tax matters. The effective income tax rate for 2004 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes and a charge associated with charitable contribution carryovers. A 2004 accrual for income tax contingencies was offset by favorable settlements of certain federal and state income tax matters. (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Provision for income taxes
     in 2004 is comprised of gains on the sales of the Canadian straddle plants and the Alaska refinery of $189.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, as well as $22 million in income from our Canadian straddles discontinued operation. Partially offsetting these are $153 million of charges to increase our accrued liability associated with certain Quality Bank litigation matters and a $55.4 million net-of-tax loss related to our discontinued power business.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
Results of Operations  Segments
     We are currently organized into the following segments: Exploration & Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream, Gas Marketing Services, and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations. Our management currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations. (See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Exploration & Production
     
Overview of 2006
     In 2006, we focused on our objective to rapidly expand development of our drilling inventory. This resulted in significant growth as evidenced by the following accomplishments:
     The benefit of higher production volumes to operating results was more than offset by the downward trending of natural gas market prices during the year and increased operating costs. The increase in operating costs reflects an
 
increase in our production volumes combined with a general industry condition of greater demand for services and products as production activities increase in our key basins.
     
Significant events
     At December 31, 2006, all ten new state-of-the-art FlexRig4 drilling rigs have been placed into service pursuant to our lease agreement with Helmerich & Payne. The March 2005 contract provided for the operation of the drilling rigs, each for a primary lease term of three years. This arrangement supports our continuing objective to accelerate the pace of natural gas development in the Piceance basin through both deployment of the additional rigs and through the drilling and operational efficiencies of the new rigs.
     In 2006, we increased our position in the Fort Worth basin by acquiring producing properties and undeveloped leasehold interests for approximately $64 million. These acquisitions increased our diversification into the Mid-Continent region and will allow us to use our horizontal drilling expertise to develop wells in the Barnett Shale formation.
     
Outlook for 2007
     Our expectations and objectives for 2007 include:
     Approximately 172 MMcfe, or 18 percent, of our forecasted 2007 daily production is hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts at prices that average $3.90 per Mcfe at a basin level. In addition, we have collar agreements for each month in 2007 as follows:
     We have recently entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Margin requirements, if any, under this new facility are dependent on the level of hedging and on natural gas reserves value.
     Additional risks to achieving our expectations include weather conditions at certain of our locations during the first and fourth quarters of 2007, drilling rig availability, obtaining permits as planned for drilling, and market price movements.
     
Year-Over-Year Operating Results
 
     
2006 vs. 2005
     Total increased $218.5 million, or 17 percent, primarily due to the following:
segment revenues
     To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative sales contracts that fix the sales price relating to a portion of our future production. Approximately 40 percent of domestic production in 2006 was hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts at a weighted average price of $3.82 per Mcfe at a basin level compared to 47 percent hedged at a weighted average price of $3.99 per Mcfe in 2005. In addition, approximately 15 percent of domestic production was hedged by the following collar agreements in 2006:
     In 2005, approximately 10 percent of domestic production was hedged by a NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day at a floor price of $7.50 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $10.49 per Mcfe in the first quarter and at a floor price of $6.75 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $8.50 per Mcfe in the second, third, and fourth quarters, and a Northwest Pipeline/Rockies collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day in the fourth quarter at a floor price of $6.10 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $7.70 per Mcfe.
     Our hedges are executed with our Gas Marketing Services segment, which, in turn, executes offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Generally, Gas Marketing Services bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. Hedging decisions are made considering our overall commodity risk exposure and are not executed independently by Exploration & Production.
     Total increased $257 million, primarily due to the following:
costs and expenses
 
     The $35.7 million decrease in sis primarily due to lower net realized average prices and higher as discussed previously, and the absence in 2006 of $29.6 million of gains on the sales of properties in 2005. Partially offsetting these decreases are a 23 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold and an increase in income from ineffectiveness and forward mark-to-market gains. also includes an $8 million increase in our international operations primarily due to higher revenue and equity earnings as a result of increases in net realized average prices for crude oil production volumes sold.
egment profit
costs and expenses
Segment profit
     
2005 vs. 2004
     The $491.5 million, or 63 percent increase in is primarily due to an increase in domestic production revenues of $434 million during 2005 reflecting higher net realized average prices and higher production volumes sold. Also contributing to the increase is a $58 million increase in revenues from gas management activities, offset in , and $13 million increased production revenues from our international operations. Partially offsetting these increases is $10 million in net unrealized losses attributable to NYMEX collars from hedge ineffectiveness.
segment revenues
costs and expenses
     The increase in domestic production revenues primarily results from $319 million higher revenues associated with a 42 percent increase in net realized average prices for production sold as well as a $115 million increase associated with an 18 percent increase in average daily production volumes. The higher net realized average prices reflect the benefit of the lower volumes hedged in 2005 as compared to 2004 coupled with higher market prices for natural gas in 2005. The increase in production volumes primarily reflects an increase in the number of producing wells resulting from our successful 2005 drilling program.
     Approximately 77 percent of domestic production in 2004 was hedged at a weighted average price of $3.65 per Mcfe at a basin level.
     Total increased $147 million, primarily due to the following:
costs and expenses
These increased are partially offset by the absence in 2005 of a $15.4 million loss provision related to an ownership dispute on prior period production in 2004, a $7.9 million gain on the sale of an undeveloped leasehold position in Colorado in the first quarter of 2005, and a $21.7 million gain on the sale of certain outside operated properties in the Powder River basin area of Wyoming in the third quarter of 2005.
costs and expenses
 
     The $351.4 million increase in sis primarily due to increased revenues from higher volumes and higher net realized average prices, as well as the gains on sales of assets, partially offset by higher expenses as discussed above. also includes a $19 million increase in our international operations reflecting higher revenue and equity earnings resulting from higher net realized oil and gas prices.
egment profit
Segment profit
Gas Pipeline
     
Overview
     We operate, through our Northwest Pipeline and Transco subsidiaries, approximately 14,400 miles of pipeline from the Gulf Coast to the northeast United States and from northern New Mexico to the Pacific Northwest with a total annual throughput of approximately 2,500 trillion BTUs. Additionally, we hold a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream). This asset, which extends from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida, has current transportation capacity of 1.1 MMdt/d.
     Our strategy to create value for our shareholders focuses on maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets.
     Gas Pipeline's interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERC's ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates.
     Significant events of 2006 include:
     
Filing of rate cases
     During 2006, Northwest Pipeline and Transco each filed general rate cases with the FERC for increases in rates due to higher costs in recent years. The new rates are effective, subject to refund, in January 2007 for Northwest Pipeline and in March 2007 for Transco. We expect the new rates to result in significantly higher revenues.
     In January 2007, Northwest Pipeline reached a settlement in its pending rate case. The settlement is subject to FERC approval, which is expected by mid-2007.
     
Gulfstream
     In March 2006, our equity method investee, Gulfstream, announced a new long-term agreement with a Florida utility company, which fully subscribed the pipeline's mainline capacity on a long-term basis. Under the agreement, Gulfstream will extend its existing pipeline approximately 35 miles within Florida. The agreement is subject to the approval of various authorities. Construction of the extension is anticipated to begin in early 2008 with a targeted completion of summer 2008.
     In May 2006, Gulfstream announced a new agreement to provide 155 Mdt/d of natural gas to a Florida utility. In December 2006, Gulfstream filed an application with the FERC seeking approval to expand its pipeline system to provide the additional capacity. Under this agreement, Gulfstream will construct approximately 17.5 miles of 20 inch pipeline and the installation of a new compressor facility. If approved, all of the facilities will be placed into service by January 2009.
     
Parachute Lateral project
     In August 2006, we received FERC approval to construct a 37.6-mile expansion that will provide additional natural gas transportation capacity in northwest Colorado. The planned expansion will increase capacity by 450 Mdt/d through the 30-inch diameter line and is estimated to cost approximately $86 million. The expansion is expected to be in service in March 2007.
 
     
Grays Harbor
     Effective January 2005, Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (Duke) terminated its firm transportation agreement related to Northwest Pipeline's Grays Harbor lateral. In January 2005, Duke paid Northwest Pipeline $94 million for the remaining book value of the asset and the related income taxes. We and Duke have not agreed on the amount of the income taxes due Northwest Pipeline as a result of the contract termination. We have deferred the $6 million difference between the proceeds and net book value of the lateral pending resolution of the disputed early termination obligation.
     On June 16, 2005, we filed a Petition for a Declaratory Order with the FERC requesting that it rule on our interpretation of our tariff to aid in resolving the dispute with Duke. On July 15, 2005, Duke filed a motion to intervene and provided comments supporting its position concerning the issues in dispute.
     On October 4, 2006, the FERC issued its Order on Petition for Declaratory Order, providing clarification on issues relating to Duke's obligation to reimburse us for future tax expenses. We reviewed the Order and filed a request for rehearing requesting further clarification of certain items. Based upon the order, as written, we do not anticipate any adverse impact to our results of operations or financial position.
     
Northwest Pipeline capacity replacement project
     In September 2005, we received FERC approval to construct and operate approximately 80 miles of 36-inch pipeline loop as a replacement for most of the capacity previously served by 268 miles of 26-inch pipeline in the Washington state area. The capacity replacement as well as the abandonment of the old capacity was completed in December 2006. In addition to the capacity replacement, five existing compressor stations were modified, and we increased net horsepower.
     
Outlook for 2007
     
Leidy to Long Island expansion project
     In May 2006, we received FERC approval to expand Transco's natural gas pipeline in the northeast United States. The estimated cost of the project is approximately $141 million with three-quarters of that spending expected to occur in 2007. The expansion will provide 100 Mdt/d of incremental firm capacity and is expected to be in service by November 2007.
     
Potomac expansion project
     In July 2006, we filed an application with the FERC to expand Transco's existing facilities in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States by constructing 16.5 miles of 42-inch pipeline. The project will provide 165 Mdt/d of incremental firm capacity. The estimated cost of the project is approximately $74 million, with an anticipated in-service date of November 2007.
     
Year-Over-Year Operating Results
     
Significant 2005 adjustments
     Operating results for 2005 included:
 
     Our management concluded that the effects of these adjustments were not material to our consolidated results for 2005 or prior periods, or to our trend of earnings.
     
2006 vs. 2005
     decreased $65.1 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to $75 million lower revenues associated with exchange imbalance settlements (offset in ). Partially offsetting this decrease is a $9 million increase in revenue due to an adjustment for the recovery of state income tax rate changes (offset in ).
Revenues
costs and operating expenses
provision for income taxes
     decreased $17 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to:
Costs and operating expenses
Partially offsetting these decreases are:
     increased $77 million, or 92 percent, due primarily to:
SG&A expenses
 
     The $118.4 million, or 20 percent, decrease in is due primarily to the absence of significant 2005 adjustments as previously discussed, increases in and as previously discussed, and the absence of a $4.6 million construction completion fee recognized in 2005 related to our investment in Gulfstream.
segment profit
costs and operating expenses
SG&A expenses
     
2005 vs. 2004
     The $50.5 million, or 4 percent, increase in Gas Pipeline is due primarily to $86 million higher revenues associated with exchange imbalance cash-out settlements (offset in ). Partially offsetting this increase is $24 million lower transportation revenues due primarily to the termination of the Grays Harbor contract, and $11 million lower revenues associated with reimbursable costs, which are passed through to customers (offset in and ).
revenues
costs and operating expenses
costs and operating expenses
SG&A expenses
     increased $109 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to:
Costs and operating expenses
Partially offsetting these increases are decreases due to:
     decreased approximately $38 million, or 31 percent, due to the $17.1 million reduction in pension costs to correct a prior period error, $6 million lower reimbursable costs (offset in ), and the reversal of $5.6 million of prior period accruals.
SG&A expenses
revenues
     Comparative is unchanged from 2004. The following are significant components of 2005 segment profit:
segment profit
 
Midstream Gas & Liquids
     
Overview of 2006
     Midstream's ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large-scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per-unit costs. Our business is focused on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers.
     Significant events during 2006 included the following:
     
Favorable commodity price margins
     The actual realized NGL per unit margins at our processing plants exceeded Midstream's rolling five-year average for the last four quarters. The geographic diversification of Midstream assets contributed significantly to our actual realized unit margins resulting in margins generally greater than that of the industry benchmarks for gas processed in the Henry Hub area and fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu. The largest impact was realized at our western United States gas processing plants, which benefited from lower regional market natural gas prices. During 2006, NGL production rebounded from levels experienced in fourth-quarter 2005 in response to improved gas processing spreads as crude prices, which correlate to NGL prices, averaged $66 per barrel and natural gas prices decreased.
     
Expansion efforts in growth areas
     Consistent with our strategy, we continued to expand our midstream operations where we have large-scale assets in growth basins.
     We continued construction at our existing gas processing plant located near Opal, Wyoming, to add a fifth cryogenic train capable of processing up to 350 MMcf/d, bringing total Opal capacity to approximately
 
1,450 MMcf/d. This plant expansion is being placed into service during the first quarter of 2007 to begin processing gas from the Pinedale Anticline field.
     Also, we continued construction on a 37-mile extension of our oil and gas pipelines from our Devils Tower spar to the Blind Faith prospect located in Mississippi Canyon. This extension, estimated to cost approximately $200 million, is expected to be ready for service by the second quarter of 2008.
     In May 2006, we entered into an agreement to develop new pipeline capacity for transporting natural gas liquids from production areas in southwestern Wyoming to central Kansas. The other party to the agreement reimbursed us for the development costs we incurred to date for the proposed pipeline and initially will own 99 percent of the pipeline, known as Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC. We retained a 1 percent interest and have the option to increase our ownership to 50 percent and become the operator within two years of the pipeline becoming operational. Start-up is planned for early 2008. Additionally, we have agreed to dedicate our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants for transport under a long-term shipping agreement. The terms represent significant savings compared with the existing tariff and other alternatives considered.
     
Williams Partners L.P. acquires Four Corners gathering and processing business
     In June 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired 25.1 percent of our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $360 million. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. closed a $150 million private debt offering of senior unsecured notes due 2011 and an equity offering of approximately $225 million in net proceeds. In December 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired the remaining 74.9 percent interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.223 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. closed a $600 million private debt offering of senior unsecured notes due 2017, a private equity offering of approximately $350 million of common and Class B units, and a public equity offering of approximately $294 million in net proceeds. Williams Four Corners LLC owns certain gathering, processing and treating assets in the San Juan basin in Colorado and New Mexico.
     We currently own approximately 22.5 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us. Considering the presumption of control of the general partner in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04-5, Williams Partners L.P. is consolidated within the Midstream segment. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Midstream's segment profit includes 100 percent of Williams Partners L.P.'s segment profit, with the minority interest's share deducted below segment profit. The debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively.
     
Gulf Coast operations return to normal after 2005's hurricanes
     In 2005, Hurricanes Dennis, Katrina and Rita caused temporary shut-downs of most of our facilities and our producers' facilities in the Gulf Coast region, which reduced product flows in the second half of 2005. Our major facilities resumed normal operations shortly after the passage of each hurricane except for our Devils Tower spar which returned to service in early November 2005 and our Cameron Meadows gas processing plant which returned to partial service in February 2006 and achieved full service in January 2007. Generally, overall product flows returned to pre-hurricane levels during the first quarter of 2006.
     
Gulf Liquids litigation
     We recorded pre-tax charges totaling $94.7 million resulting from jury verdicts in civil litigation. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) These charges reflect our estimated exposure for actual damages of $72.7 million, including estimated legal fees of $4.7 million, and potential pre-judgment interest of $22 million. Midstream Other segment profit reflects the $72.7 million charge for the estimated actual damages and legal fees. The matter is related to a contractual dispute surrounding construction in 2000 and 2001 of certain refinery off-gas processing facilities by Gulf Liquids. In addition, it is reasonably possible that any ultimate judgment may include additional amounts of $199 million in excess of our accrual, which represents our estimate of potential punitive damage exposure under Texas law. The jury verdicts are subject to trial and appellate court review. Entry of a
 
judgment in the trial court is expected in the second or third quarter of 2007. If the trial court enters a judgment consistent with the jury's verdicts against us, we will seek a reversal through appeal.
     
Outlook for 2007
     The following factors could impact our business in 2007 and beyond.
 
     
Year-Over-Year Results
     In order to provide additional clarity, our management's discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion.
indirect general and administrative expense.
     
2006 vs. 2005
     The $892.0 million increase in is largely due to:
segment revenues
     These increases were partially offset by an $84 million reduction in NGL revenues due to a change in classification of NGL transportation and fractionation expenses from costs of goods sold to net revenues (offset in costs and operating expenses).
     increased $707.3 million primarily as a result of:
Segment costs and expenses
 
These increases were partially offset by:
     The $220 million increase in Midstream is primarily due to higher NGL margins, higher deepwater production handling revenues, higher gathering and processing revenues, higher margins from our olefins unit, a settlement of an international contract dispute, and the absence of a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable Liquid Products L.P. (Aux Sable) recorded in 2005. These increases were largely offset by the $72.7 million charge related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency combined with higher operating costs and lower margins related to the marketing of olefins and NGLs. A more detailed analysis of the of Midstream's various operations is presented as follows.
segment profit
segment profit
     
Domestic gathering & processing
     The $247.1 million increase in includes a $143 million increase in the West region and a $104 million increase in the Gulf Coast region.
domestic gathering and processing segment profit
     The $143 million increase in our West region's primarily results from higher product margins and higher gathering and processing revenues, partially offset by higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase include the following:
segment profit
     The $104 million increase in the Gulf Coast region's is primarily a result of higher NGL margins, higher volumes from our deepwater facilities, partially offset by higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase include the following:
segment profit
 
     
Venezuela
     for our Venezuela assets increased $3.7 million and includes $9 million resulting from the settlement of a contract dispute and $1 million in higher revenues due to higher natural gas volumes and prices at our compression facility. These are partially offset by $4 million in higher expenses related to higher insurance, personnel and contract labor costs and a $2 million increase in the reserve for uncollectible accounts.
Segment profit
     
Other
     The $26 million decrease in of our other operations is largely due to the $72.7 million of charges related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency combined with $13 million in lower margins related to the marketing of olefins. The decrease also reflects $12 million in lower margins related to the marketing of NGLs due to more favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2005 as compared to 2006. These were partially offset by the absence of a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable in 2005, $24 million in higher margins in our olefins unit, $7 million in higher earnings from our equity investment in Discovery Producer Services, L.L.C. (Discovery), $7 million in higher fractionation, storage and other fee revenues, and a $4 million favorable transportation settlement.
segment profit
     
2005 vs. 2004
     The $350.1 million increase in is largely due to:
segment revenues
     increased $364.1 million primarily as a result of:
Costs and operating expenses
 
     The $102.3 million decline in Midstream is primarily due to the absence of the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids' insurance arbitration award in 2004 and a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable in 2005. The offsetting increase in segment profit is primarily due to higher fee revenues from our domestic gathering and processing and Venezuela businesses and higher earnings from our investment in the Discovery partnership, partially offset by lower NGL margins and higher operating costs. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstream's various operations is presented below.
segment profit
     
Domestic gathering & processing
     The $6.1 million decrease in includes a $30 million decline in the Gulf Coast region, largely offset by a $24 million increase in the West region.
domestic gathering and processing segment profit
     The $24 million increase in our West region's primarily results from higher gathering and processing fee revenues, and the absence of an asset write-down and other 2004 charges, offset partially by higher operating expenses and lower NGL margins. The significant drivers to these items are as follows:
segment profit
     The $30 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region's is primarily a result of higher operating and depreciation expenses and lower NGL margins. The significant components of this decline include the following:
segment profit
     
Venezuela
     for our Venezuela assets increased $9.1 million as a result of higher plant volumes and higher equity earnings from our investment in the ACCROVEN partnership. The higher equity earnings are largely due to the renegotiation of a power supply contract and the absence of 2004 legal fees associated with the Jose Terminal.
Segment profit
 
     
Other
     The $95.5 million decrease in of our other operations is largely due to the absence of the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids' insurance arbitration award in 2004, a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable in 2005, and a $9.5 million gain on the sale of the Choctaw ethylene distribution assets in 2004. Partially offsetting these decreases were $7 million in higher olefins and commodity margins, $6 million in higher earnings from our equity investment in the Discovery partnership, and the absence of a 2004 $16.9 million impairment charge also related to our equity investment in the Discovery partnership.
segment profit
     
Indirect general and administrative expense
     The $9.8 million unfavorable variance for our is primarily due to higher employee expenses and administrative costs associated with the creation of Williams Partners L.P.
indirect general and administrative expenses
Gas Marketing Services
     Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production and procuring fuel and shrink gas for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas-related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges, which were part of our former Power segment, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions.
Overview of 2006
     Gas Marketing's operating results for 2006 reflect unrealized mark-to-market losses primarily caused by a decrease in forward natural gas prices against a net long derivative legacy position. Most of these derivative positions are economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Outlook for 2007
     For 2007, Gas Marketing intends to focus on providing services that support our natural gas businesses. Certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions from our former Power segment are included in the Gas Marketing segment. We intend to manage or liquidate a substantial portion of these legacy contracts in order to reduce risk and volatility.
     Until such legacy positions are liquidated, Gas Marketing's earnings may continue to reflect mark-to-market volatility from commodity-based derivatives that represent economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Year-Over-Year Results
 
     
2006 vs. 2005
     represent (1) revenue from the sale of natural gas or completion of energy-related services and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. decreased $962.4 million primarily due to a 17 percent decrease in average natural gas sales prices.
Realized revenues
Realized revenues
     primarily represent changes in the fair values of certain legacy derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts primarily caused the $324 million unfavorable change in . A decrease in forward natural gas prices during 2006 caused losses on legacy net forward gas fixed-price purchase contracts, while an increase in forward natural gas prices during 2005 caused gains on legacy net forward gas fixed-price purchase contracts.
Net forward unrealized mark-to-market gains (losses)
net forward unrealized mark-to-market gains (losses)
     The $980.1 million decrease in Gas Marketing's is primarily due to an 18 percent decrease in average natural gas purchase prices.
costs and operating expenses
     The favorable change in is due primarily to increased gains from the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Gas Marketing recognized a $24.8 million gain in 2006 compared to a $9.7 million gain in 2005.
selling, general and administrative (income) expense
     in 2005 includes an $82.2 million accrual for estimated litigation contingencies, primarily associated with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to natural gas price and volume reporting issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and a $4.6 million accrual for a regulatory settlement.
Other (income) expense  net
     The $203.9 million change from a to a is primarily due to the effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts, partially offset by favorable changes in described above.
segment profit
segment loss
other (income) expensenet
     
2005 vs. 2004
     The $1.2 billion increase in is primarily due to a 33 percent increase in average natural gas sales prices. Hurricane Katrina, among other factors, contributed to the increase in prices.
realized revenues
     A change in notional volumes on legacy natural gas derivative contracts, partially offset by the effect of a change in forward prices, primarily caused the $28.7 million decrease in . The effect of a greater increase in forward natural gas prices on a lower notional volume of net forward gas fixed-price purchase contracts in 2005 compared to 2004 resulted in decreased unrealized mark-to-market gains. Also in 2005, Gas Marketing recognized losses of $6.8 million representing a correction of unrealized losses associated with a prior year. Our management concluded that the effects of this correction are not material to prior periods, 2005 results, or our trend of earnings.
net forward unrealized mark-to-market gains (losses)
     The $1.2 billion increase in Gas Marketing's is primarily due to a 44 percent increase in average natural gas purchase prices. Hurricane Katrina, among other factors, contributed to the increase in prices.
costs and operating expenses
     The favorable change in sis primarily due to decreased employee incentive compensation and decreased costs for outside services. A $9.7 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from the sale of certain receivables to a third party also contributed to the favorable change in in 2004 includes a $6.3 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from a 2004 settlement with certain California utilities.
elling, general and administrative (income) expense
SG&A (income) expense. SG&A (income) expense
     in 2005 includes an $82.2 million accrual for estimated litigation contingencies as previously discussed. in 2004 includes $6.1 million in fees paid related to the sale of certain receivables to a third party.
Other (income) expense  net
Other (income) expense  net
 
     The $144.3 million decrease in is primarily due to accruals in 2005 for litigation contingencies. In addition, the unfavorable changes in contributed to the decrease as well.
segment profit
gross margin
Other
     
Overview of 2006
     While we continue to have an equity ownership interest in Longhorn, the management of Longhorn completed an asset sale of the pipeline during the third quarter of 2006. As a result, we received full payment of the $10 million secured bridge loan that we provided Longhorn during 2005. The carrying value of our equity investment in Longhorn is zero as of December 31, 2006.
     We continue to receive payments associated with the 2005 transfer of the Longhorn operating agreement to a third party. These payments totaled approximately $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Any ongoing payments received or through monetization of the contract will be recognized as income when received. These ongoing payments were not impacted by the sale of the pipeline.
     Our natural gas-fired electric generating plant near Bloomfield, New Mexico (Milagro facility), is now reported within the Other segment. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     
Year-Over-Year Operating Results
     
2006 vs. 2005
     Other for 2006 includes $3.3 million in payments received related to the 2005 transfer of the Longhorn operating agreement.
segment loss
     Other for 2005 includes $87.2 million of impairment charges, of which $38.1 million was recorded during the fourth quarter, related to our investment in Longhorn. In a related matter, we wrote off $4 million of capitalized project costs associated with Longhorn. We also recorded $23.7 million of equity losses associated with our investment in Longhorn. Partially offsetting these charges and losses was a $9 million fourth quarter gain on the sale of land.
segment loss
     
2005 vs. 2004
     Other for 2005 includes various items which are discussed above.
segment loss
     Other for 2004 includes $11.8 million of accrued environmental remediation expense associated with the Augusta refinery. Also included in Other is $10.8 million of impairment charges related to our investment in Longhorn, $9.8 million of equity losses associated with our investment in Longhorn, and $6.5 million of net unreimbursed advisory fees related to the recapitalization of Longhorn.
segment loss
segment loss
 
Energy Trading Activities
     
Fair Value of Trading and Nontrading Derivatives
     The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2006. We have presented the fair value of assets and liabilities by the period in which they would be realized under their contractual terms and not as a result of a sale. We have reported the fair value of a portion of these derivatives in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     As the table above illustrates, we are not materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a substantial portfolio of nontrading derivative contracts. Nontrading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could possibly hedge forecasted transactions on an economic basis. We have designated certain of these contracts as cash flow hedges of Exploration & Production's forecasted sales of natural gas production and certain forecasted purchases of gas and purchases and sales of power related to our former Power segment's long-term structured contracts and owned generation under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133). Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, SFAS 133 cash flow hedges had a net asset value of $360 million as of December 31, 2006, which includes the existing fair value of the derivatives at the time of their designation as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for nontrading purposes as of December 31, 2006, for Gas Marketing Services, Exploration & Production, Midstream, Other, and nontrading derivatives reported in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations.
     
Methods of Estimating Fair Value
     Most of the derivatives we hold settle in active periods and markets in which quoted market prices are available. These include futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and physical commodity purchases and sales in the commodity markets in which we transact. While an active market may not exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be obtained for natural gas through 2012 and power through 2011.
     These prices reflect current economic and regulatory conditions and may change because of market conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active markets varies between periods and commodities based upon changes in market conditions. The ability to obtain quoted market prices also varies greatly from region to region. The time periods noted above are an estimation of aggregate availability of quoted prices. An immaterial portion of our total net derivative value of $436 million relates to periods in which active quotes cannot be obtained. We estimate energy commodity prices in these illiquid periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. Modeling and other valuation techniques, however, are not used significantly in determining the fair value of our derivatives.
 
     
Counterparty Credit Considerations
     We include an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance in our estimate of fair value for all contracts. Such assessment considers (1) the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, (2) the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, (3) the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to and (4) the terms of each individual contract.
     Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if necessary. At December 31, 2006, we held collateral support, including letters of credit, of $695 million.
     We also enter into master netting agreements to mitigate counterparty performance and credit risk. During 2006 and 2005, we did not incur any significant losses due to recent counterparty bankruptcy filings.
     The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts, a portion of which is included in assets of discontinued operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as of December 31, 2006, is summarized below.
     We assess our credit exposure on a net basis to reflect master netting agreements in place with certain counterparties. We offset our credit exposure to each counterparty with amounts we owe the counterparty under derivative contracts. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31, 2006, is summarized below.
 
     
Trading Policy
     We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Value-at-risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
     
Outlook
     We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet future requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances requiring the use of funds. In 2007, we expect to maintain liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. We maintain adequate liquidity to manage margin requirements related to significant movements in commodity prices, unplanned capital spending needs, near term scheduled debt payments, and litigation and other settlements. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements through cash flow from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $2 billion and $2.3 billion in 2007, proceeds from debt issuances and sales of units of Williams Partners L.P., as well as cash and cash equivalents on hand as needed.
     We enter 2007 positioned for growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas businesses. Examples of this planned growth include:
     We estimate capital and investment expenditures will total approximately $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion in 2007. As a result of increasing our development drilling program, $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion of the total estimated 2007 capital expenditures is related to Exploration & Production. Also within the total estimated expenditures for 2007 is approximately $215 million to $270 million for maintenance-related projects at Gas Pipeline, including pipeline replacement and Clean Air Act compliance. Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $406 million at December 31, 2006.
     Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include:
     In August 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 was signed into law. The Act makes significant changes to the requirements for employer-sponsored retirement plans, including revisions affecting the funding of defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2008. We are assessing the impact of the legislation on our future funding
 
requirements, but do not expect a significant increase in required contributions over current levels, assuming long-term rates of return on assets and current discount rates do not experience a significant decline.
     
Overview
     In November 2005, we initiated an offer to induce conversion of up to $300 million of the 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. The conversion was executed in January 2006 and approximately $220.2 million of the debentures were exchanged for common stock. We paid $25.8 million in premiums that are included in in the Consolidated Statement of Income. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
early debt retirement costs
     In April 2006, Transco issued $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement to fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. In October 2006, Transco completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In April 2006, we retired a secured floating-rate term loan for $488.9 million, including outstanding principal and accrued interest. The loan was due in 2008 and secured by substantially all of the assets of Williams Production RMT Company. The loan was retired using a combination of cash and revolving credit borrowings.
     In May 2006, we replaced our $1.275 billion secured revolving credit facility with a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The new facility contains similar terms and financial covenants as the secured facility, but contains certain additional restrictions. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     In June 2006, Northwest Pipeline issued $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement to fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. In October 2006, Northwest Pipeline completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In June 2006, we reached an agreement-in-principle to settle class-action securities litigation filed on behalf of purchasers of our securities between July 24, 2000 and July 22, 2002, for a total payment of $290 million to plaintiffs. On February 9, 2007, the court gave its final approval of the settlement. We recorded a pre-tax charge for approximately $161 million in second quarter 2006. Our portion of the total payment was $145 million.
     On June 1, 2006, the FERC entered its final order (FERC Final Order) concerning the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality Bank litigation. The Quality Bank Administrator will determine and invoice for amounts due based on the FERC Final Order, subject to the final disposition of the FERC Final Order appeals. We estimate that our net obligation could be as much as $116 million. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     In June 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired 25.1 percent of our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $360 million. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $150 million private debt offering of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2011 and an equity offering of approximately $225 million in net proceeds. In December 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired the remaining 74.9 percent interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.223 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $600 million private debt offering of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017, a private equity offering of approximately $350 million of common and Class B units, and a public equity offering of approximately $294 million in net proceeds. The debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively. Williams Four Corners LLC owns certain gathering, processing and treating assets in the San Juan Basin in Colorado and New Mexico.
     Exploration & Production has recently entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Margin requirements, if any, under this new facility are dependent on the level of hedging and on natural gas reserves value.
     
Credit ratings
     On May 4, 2006, Standard & Poor's raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a B+ to a BB- with a positive ratings outlook. With respect to Standard & Poor's, a rating of "BBB" or above indicates an investment grade rating.
 
A rating below "BBB" indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A "BB" rating indicates that Standard & Poor's believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard & Poor's may modify it's ratings with a "+" or a "" sign to show the obligor's relative standing within a major rating category.
     On June 7, 2006, Moody's Investors Service raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a B1 to a Ba2 with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Moody's, a rating of "Baa" or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below "Baa" is considered to have speculative elements. A "Ba" rating indicates an obligation that is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. The "1", "2" and "3" modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A "1" indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, "2" indicates a mid-range ranking, and "3" ranking at the lower end of the category.
     On May 15, 2006, Fitch Ratings raised our senior unsecured rating from BB to BB+ with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Fitch, a rating of "BBB" or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below "BBB" is considered speculative grade. A "BB" rating from Fitch indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. Fitch may add a "+" or a "" sign to show the obligor's relative standing within a major rating category.
     Our goal is to attain investment grade ratios at some point in the future.
     
Liquidity
     Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, bank financings, and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. While most of our sources are available to us at the parent level, others are available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity and debt issuances from Williams Partners L.P. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions.
 
     In addition to the above, Northwest Pipeline and Transco have shelf registration statements available for the issuance of up to $350 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities. The ability of Northwest Pipeline to utilize their registration statement to issue debt securities is restricted by certain covenants of its debt agreements. If the credit rating of Northwest Pipeline or Transco is below investment grade, they can only use their shelf registration statements to issue debt if such debt is guaranteed by us.
 
     Williams Partners L.P. has a shelf registration statement available for the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of debt and limited partnership unit securities.
     In addition, at the parent-company level, we have a shelf registration statement that allows us to issue publicly registered debt and equity securities as needed. This registration statement, filed May 19, 2006, replaces our previously filed shelf registration.
     
Sources (Uses) of Cash
     
Operating Activities
     Our in 2006 increased from 2005 due largely to higher operating income at Midstream, partially offset by a $145 million securities litigation settlement payment in fourth quarter 2006.
net cash provided by operating activities
     Our 2005 decreased slightly from 2004. A primary driver in is which increased primarily as a result of higher gas production volumes and net average realized prices for production sold. Also contributing to the increase in income from continuing operations is the reduction in interest expense due to lower average borrowing levels. Cash payments for interest decreased $224 million from 2004. In addition to the changes in results of operations, net cash inflows from margin deposits and customer margin deposits payable decreased significantly from 2004. In 2004, our former power business issued a significant number of letters of credit to replace its cash margin deposits. As the letters of credit were issued, the counterparties returned our cash margin deposits to us. Due to fewer letters of credit being issued to replace cash margin deposits in 2005, we have fewer receipts of margin deposits than in 2004.
net cash provided by operating activities
net cash provided by operating activities
income from continuing operations,
     includes contributions to our tax-qualified pension plans of $42.1 million in 2006, $52.1 million in 2005 and $136.8 million in 2004. It is our policy to make annual contributions to our tax-qualified pension plans in an amount at least equal to the greater of the actuarially computed annual normal cost plus any unfunded actuarial accrued liability, amortized over approximately five years, or the minimum required contribution under existing laws. Additional amounts may be contributed to increase the funded status of the plans. In an effort to strengthen our funded status and take advantage of strong cash flows, we contributed approximately $26.5 million, $41.1 million and $98.9 million more than our funding policy required in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Other, including changes in noncurrent assets and liabilities,
     
Financing Activities
     During the first quarter of 2006, we paid $25.8 million in premiums for early debt retirement costs relating to the debt conversion previously discussed.
     See Overview, within this section, for a discussion of 2006 debt issuances, debt retirement, and additional financing by Williams Partners L.P.
     During January 2005, we retired $200 million of 6.125 percent notes issued by Transco, which matured January 15, 2005. In the first quarter of 2005, we received approximately $273 million in purchased under the FELINE PACS equity forward contracts. During August 2005, we completed an initial public offering of approximately 40 percent of our interest in Williams Partners L.P. resulting in net proceeds of $111 million.
proceeds from the issuance of common stock
 
     During 2004, we repaid long-term debt through tender offers and early retirements. We also reduced our debt through our FELINE PACS exchange. This noncash exchange resulted in payments of fees and expenses reported as
premiums paid on tender offer, early debt retirements and FELINE PACS exchange.
     Quarterly dividends paid on common stock increased from 7.5 cents to 9 cents per common share during the second quarter of 2006 and totaled $206.6 million for year ended December 31, 2006. For the fourth quarter of 2005, dividends paid on common stock were 7.5 cents per share and totaled $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
     
Investing Activities
     During 2006, capital expenditures totaled $2,509.2 million and were primarily related to Exploration & Production's increased drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin, and Northwest Pipeline's capacity replacement project.
     During 2006, we purchased $386.3 million and received $414.1 million from the sale of auction rate securities. These instruments are utilized as a component of our overall cash management program.
     In January 2005, Northwest Pipeline received an $87.9 million contract termination payment, representing reimbursement of the net book value of the related assets.
     In January 2005, we received approximately $54.7 million proceeds from the sale of our note with Williams Communications Group, our previously owned subsidiary (WilTel).
     During 2005, we received $310.5 million in proceeds from the Gulfstream recapitalization.
     In 2004, we sold all of our restricted investments resulting in proceeds of $851.4 million. When our $800 million revolving and letter of credit facility that required 105 percent cash collateral was replaced with a new revolving credit facility in January 2005, we were no longer required to hold the restricted investments.
     In 2004, we had numerous asset sales resulting in proceeds in 2004 of $877.8 million.
Off-balance sheet financing arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments
     In January 2005, we terminated our two unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities totaling $500 million and replaced them with two new facilities that contain similar terms but fewer restrictions. In September 2005, we also entered into two new revolving and letter of credit facilities that have a similar structure. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     We have provided a guarantee for obligations of Williams Partners L.P. under the $1.5 billion unsecured revolving and letter of credit facility.
     We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 2, 3, 10, 11, 14, and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs.
 
     
Contractual Obligations
     The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations, including obligations related to discontinued operations.
     Contractual obligations related to discontinued operations included in the table above are as follows:
 
 
Effects of Inflation
     Our operations in recent years have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 46 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline and the remainder is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost-based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, refined product, natural gas, natural gas liquids and power prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels and/or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future. However, our exposure to these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments.
Environmental
     We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $52 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2006. We will seek recovery of approximately $11 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2006, we paid approximately $12 million for cleanup and/or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $17 million in 2007 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2006, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.
     We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground-level ozone in certain states. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants, which may impose additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $41 million in 2006 and are estimated to be between $35 million and $40 million through 2010. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates.
 
Item 7A.
Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Interest Rate Risk
     Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long-term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets.
     The tables below provide information about our interest rate risk-sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. Long-term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using indicative year-end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings.
 
Commodity Price Risk
     We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas, electricity, and natural gas liquids, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations, including correlations between natural gas and power prices. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy-related assets, our long-term energy-related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy-related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy-commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value-at-risk methodology to estimate the potential one-day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios.
     Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value-at-risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one-day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The
 
simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value-at-risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one-day holding period to execute. While a one-day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints.
     We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS 133 and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk.
     
Trading
     Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price-risk exposure. A portion of these derivative contracts are included in our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was approximately $1 million at December 31, 2006, and $4 million at December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $4 million to a low of $1 million.
     
Nontrading
     Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities:
     Our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations also include derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the commodity price risk exposure from natural gas purchases and electricity purchases and sales.
     The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $12 million at December 31, 2006, and $28 million at December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $25 million to a low of $12 million. A portion of these derivative contracts are included in our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations.
     Certain of the other derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. Though these contracts are included in our value-at-risk calculation, any change in the fair value of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings.
Foreign Currency Risk
     We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and/or the economic conditions in foreign countries.
     International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $42 million at December 31, 2006, and $45 million at December 31, 2005. These investments are primarily in nonpublicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair value at December 31, 2006, could change by approximately $8.3 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and the value of the investments.
 
     Net assets of consolidated foreign operations whose functional currency is the local currency are located primarily in Canada and approximate 6 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of re-measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar could have changed by approximately $68 million at December 31, 2006.
stockholders' equity
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Williams Companies, Inc.
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Williams Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99.2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Williams Companies, Inc. at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
     As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), and as explained in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, . Also, as explained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2005, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47,
Share-Based Payment
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations.
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of The Williams Companies, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Tulsa, Oklahoma February 22, 2007, except for the matters related to the sale of power business described in Note 2, as to which the date is October 8, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     
Description of Business
     Operations of our company are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Exploration & Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream), and Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing).
     Exploration & Production includes natural gas development, production and gas management activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions of the United States and oil and natural gas interests in Argentina.
     Gas Pipeline is comprised primarily of two interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as investments in natural gas pipeline-related companies. The Gas Pipeline operating segments have been aggregated for reporting purposes and include Northwest Pipeline Corporation (Northwest Pipeline), which extends from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado to Oregon and Washington, and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco), which extends from the Gulf of Mexico region to the northeastern United States. In addition, we own a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream. Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida.
     Midstream is comprised of natural gas gathering and processing and treating facilities in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, oil gathering and transportation facilities in the Gulf Coast region of the United States, majority-owned natural gas compression facilities in Venezuela, and assets in Canada, consisting primarily of a natural gas liquids extraction facility and a fractionation plant.
     Gas Marketing primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production and procuring fuel and shrink gas for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas-related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges, which were part of our former Power segment, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions.
     
Basis of Presentation
     On May 21, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. In addition, we expect to sell certain remaining power assets later this year. We have retained the exposure related to certain contingent liabilities associated with our power business.
     In accordance with the provisions related to discontinued operations within Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets", the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes reflect the results of operations and financial position of our power business as discontinued operations. (See Note 2.) These operations, which were part of our previously reported Power segment, include our 7,500-megawatt portfolio of power-related contracts being sold to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. and our natural gas-fired electric generating plant located in Hazleton, Pennsylvania (Hazleton).
     We have recast all segment information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the prior periods presented to reflect the discontinued operations noted above. This also reflects the creation of a new Gas Marketing Services segment, which includes certain continued marketing and risk management operations that support our natural gas businesses. These operations were part of our previously reported Power segment but will now be managed and reported as a separate segment.
 
     Unless indicated otherwise, the information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements relates to our continuing operations.
     Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current classifications.
     Cash flows are presented without separate disclosure of discontinued operations. Amounts reported for the prior period have been revised with no material impact. This revision did not change the total reported net cash provided or used by operating, financing, or investing activities.
     In February 2005, we formed Williams Partners L.P., a limited partnership engaged in the business of gathering, transporting and processing natural gas and fractionating and storing natural gas liquids. We currently own approximately 22.5 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us. Considering the presumption of control of the general partner in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights," Williams Partners L.P. is consolidated within our Midstream segment.
     
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     
Principles of consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our corporate parent and our majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries and investments. We apply the equity method of accounting for investments in unconsolidated companies in which we and our subsidiaries own 20 to 50 percent of the voting interest, or otherwise exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the company.
     
Use of estimates
     Management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
     Significant estimates and assumptions include:
     These estimates are discussed further throughout these notes.
 
     
Cash and cash equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents includes demand and time deposits, certificates of deposit, and other marketable securities with maturities of three months or less when acquired.
     
Restricted cash
     within consists primarily of collateral required by certain loan agreements for our Venezuelan operations, escrow accounts established to fund payments required by our California settlement (see Note 15), and an escrow account used to collect and manage margin dollars. within noncurrent assets relates primarily to certain borrowings by our Venezuelan operations as previously mentioned and letters of credit. We do not expect this cash to be released within the next twelve months. The current and noncurrent is primarily invested in short-term money market accounts with financial institutions.
Restricted cash
current assets
Restricted cash
restricted cash
     The classification of is determined based on the expected term of the collateral requirement and not necessarily the maturity date of the investment vehicle.
restricted cash
     
Auction rate securities
     Auction rate securities are instruments with long-term underlying maturities, but for which an auction is conducted periodically, as specified, to reset the interest rate and allow investors to buy or sell the instruments. Because auctions generally occur more often than annually, and because we hold these investments in order to meet short-term liquidity needs, we classify auction rate securities as short-term and include them in on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Consistent with our other securities that are classified as available-for-sale, our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows reflects the gross amount of the and the .
other current assets and deferred charges
purchases of auction rate securities
proceeds from sales of auction rate securities
     
Accounts receivable
     are carried on a gross basis, with no discounting, less the allowance for doubtful accounts. We estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts based on existing economic conditions, the financial conditions of the customers and the amount and age of past due accounts. Receivables are considered past due if full payment is not received by the contractual due date. Interest income related to past due accounts receivable is generally recognized at the time full payment is received or collectibility is assured. Past due accounts are generally written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts only after all collection attempts have been exhausted.
Accounts receivable
     
Inventory valuation
     All are stated at the lower of cost or market. We determine the cost of certain natural gas inventories held by Transco using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method. We determine the cost of the remaining inventories primarily using the average-cost method.
inventories
     
Property, plant and equipment
     is recorded at cost. We base the carrying value of these assets on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values.
Property, plant and equipment
 
     As regulated entities, Northwest Pipeline and Transco provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)-prescribed rates. Depreciation rates used for major regulated gas plant facilities for all years presented, are as follows:
     Depreciation for nonregulated entities is provided primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives, except as noted below for oil and gas exploration and production activities. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
     Gains or losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for regulated pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; other gains or losses are recorded in included in .
other (income) expense  net
operating income
     Ordinary maintenance and repair costs are generally expensed as incurred. Costs of major renewals and replacements are capitalized as .
property, plant, and equipment  net
     Oil and gas exploration and production activities are accounted for under the successful efforts method. Costs incurred in connection with the drilling and equipping of exploratory wells, as applicable, are capitalized as incurred. If proved reserves are not found, such costs are charged to expense. Other exploration costs, including lease rentals, are expensed as incurred. All costs related to development wells, including related production equipment and lease acquisition costs, are capitalized when incurred. Unproved properties are evaluated annually, or as conditions warrant, to determine any impairment in carrying value. is provided under the units of production method on a field basis.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
     Proved properties, including developed and undeveloped, and costs associated with unproven reserves, are assessed for impairment using estimated future cash flows on a field basis. Estimating future cash flows involves the use of complex judgments such as estimation of the proved and unproven oil and gas reserve quantities, risk associated with the different categories of oil and gas reserves, timing of development and production, expected future commodity prices, capital expenditures, and production costs.
     We record an asset and a liability equal to the present value of each expected future asset retirement obligation (ARO). The ARO asset is depreciated in a manner consistent with the depreciation of the underlying physical asset. We measure changes in the liability due to passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation. This amount is recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and as a corresponding accretion expense included in included in , except for regulated entities, for which the liability is offset by a regulatory asset.
other (income) expense  net
operating income
 
     
Goodwill
     represents the excess of cost over fair value of the assets of businesses acquired. It is evaluated annually for impairment by first comparing our management's estimate of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a computation of the implied fair value of the goodwill is compared with its related carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in the amount of the excess. We have of approximately $1 billion at December 31, 2006, and 2005, at our Exploration & Production segment.
Goodwill
goodwill
     When a reporting unit is sold or classified as held for sale, any goodwill of that reporting unit is included in its carrying value for purposes of determining any impairment or gain/loss on sale. If a portion of a reporting unit with goodwill is sold or classified as held for sale and that asset group represents a business, a portion of the reporting unit's goodwill is allocated to and included in the carrying value of that asset group. None of the operations sold during 2005 and 2004 represented reporting units with goodwill or businesses within reporting units to which goodwill was required to be allocated.
     Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows used to determine the estimate of the reporting unit's fair value. The use of alternate judgments and/or assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the financial statements.
     
Treasury stock
     purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded as treasury stock. Gains and losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to using the average-cost method.
Treasury stock
capital in excess of par value
     
Derivative instruments and hedging activities
     We utilize derivatives to manage our commodity price risk. These instruments consist primarily of futures contracts, swap agreements, option contracts, and forward contracts involving short- and long-term purchases and sales of a physical energy commodity. We execute most of these transactions on an organized commodity exchange or in over-the-counter markets in which quoted prices exist for active periods. For contracts with terms that exceed the time period for which actively quoted prices are available, we determine fair value by estimating commodity prices during the illiquid periods utilizing internally developed valuations incorporating information obtained from commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, prices reflected in current transactions, and other market fundamental analysis.
     We report the fair value of derivatives, except for those for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in and as either current or noncurrent. We determine the current and noncurrent classification based on the timing of expected future cash flows of individual contracts.
derivative assets
derivative liabilities
     The accounting for changes in the fair value of a commodity derivative is governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133 and depends on whether the derivative has been designated in a hedging relationship and whether we have elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception. The accounting for the change in fair value can be summarized as follows:
 
     We have elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception for certain short- and long-term purchases and sales of a physical energy commodity. Under accrual accounting, any change in the fair value of these derivatives is not reflected on the balance sheet after the initial election of the exception. Some contracts had a fair value at the date of the election and are reflected on the balance sheet at their fair value on the date of the election less the amount of that fair value realized during settlement periods subsequent to the election. For other contracts, we made the election at the inception of the contract and thus there is no recorded fair value.
     We have also designated a hedging relationship for certain commodity derivatives. Prior to September 2004, our former Power segment's derivative contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting because of our stated intent to exit the power business. In September 2004, we announced our decision to continue operating the power business. As a result of that decision, our former Power segment's derivative contracts became eligible for hedge accounting. Our former Power segment elected cash flow hedge accounting on a prospective basis beginning October 1, 2004, for certain qualifying derivative contracts.
     For a derivative to qualify for designation in a hedging relationship, it must meet specific criteria and we must maintain appropriate documentation. We establish hedging relationships pursuant to our risk management policies. We evaluate the hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis to determine whether the hedging relationship is, and is expected to remain, highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the underlying risk being hedged. We also regularly assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. If a derivative ceases to be or is no longer expected to be highly effective, or if we believe the likelihood of occurrence of the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively, and future changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized currently in .
revenues
     For commodity derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is reported in and reclassified into earnings in the period in which the hedged item affects earnings. Any ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value is recognized currently in . Gains or losses deferred in associated with terminated derivatives, derivatives that cease to be highly effective hedges, derivatives for which the forecasted transaction is reasonably possible but no longer probable of occurring, and cash flow hedges that have been otherwise discontinued remain in until the hedged item affects earnings. If it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction designated as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge will not occur, any gain or loss deferred in is recognized in at that time. The change in likelihood is a judgmental decision that includes qualitative assessments made by management.
other comprehensive income (loss)
revenues
accumulated other comprehensive loss
accumulated other comprehensive loss
accumulated other comprehensive loss
revenues
     For commodity derivatives that are not designated in a hedging relationship, and for which we have not elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception, we report changes in fair value currently in .
revenues
     Certain gains and losses on derivative instruments included in the Consolidated Statement of Income are netted together to a single net gain or loss, while other gains and losses are reported on a gross basis. Gains and losses recorded on a net basis include:
 
     Realized gains and losses on derivatives that require physical delivery, and which are not held for trading purposes nor were entered into as a pre-contemplated buy/sell arrangement, are recorded on a gross basis. In reaching our conclusions on this presentation, we evaluated the indicators in EITF Issue No. 99-19 "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus as an Agent," including whether we act as principal in the transaction; whether we have the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk; and whether we have latitude in establishing prices.
     
Assessment of energy-related contracts for lease classification
     EITF 01-8, "Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease," became effective on July 1, 2003, and provides guidance for determining whether certain contracts such as transportation, transmission, storage, full requirements, and tolling agreements are executory service arrangements or leases pursuant to SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases." The consensus is applied prospectively to arrangements consummated or modified after July 1, 2003. Prior to July 1, 2003, we accounted for energy-related contracts as executory service arrangements and continue this accounting unless a contract is subsequently modified and evaluated to be a lease. For executory service arrangements, the monthly demand payments are expensed as incurred. Certain of our former Power segment's tolling agreements will likely be considered leases under the consensus if the tolling agreements are ever modified. One tolling agreement was modified in 2004 and is accounted for as an operating lease. For tolling agreements that are modified and deemed to be operating leases, the monthly demand payments are expensed as incurred. If the monthly demand payments are not incurred on a straight-line basis, expense is nevertheless recognized on a straight-line basis. If such tolling agreements are modified and deemed to be capital leases, the net present value of the demand payments would be reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as and as an asset in .
long-term debt
property, plant and equipment  net
     
Gas Pipeline revenues
     Revenues from the transportation of gas are recognized in the period the service is provided, and revenues for sales of products are recognized in the period of delivery. Gas Pipeline is subject to FERC regulations and, accordingly, certain revenues collected may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders in pending rate cases. Gas Pipeline records estimates of rate refund liabilities considering Gas Pipeline and other third-party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection and other risks.
     
Exploration & Production revenues
     Revenues from the domestic production of natural gas in properties for which Exploration & Production has an interest with other producers are recognized based on the actual volumes sold during the period. Any differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes, based on Exploration & Production's net working interest, that are determined to be nonrecoverable through remaining production are recognized as accounts receivable or accounts payable, as appropriate. Cumulative differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes are not significant.
     
Revenues, other than Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production, and energy commodity risk management and trading activities
     Revenues generally are recorded when services are performed or products have been delivered.
     
Impairment of long-lived assets and investments
     We evaluate the long-lived assets of identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our management's judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. When an indicator of impairment has occurred, we compare our management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether an impairment has occurred. We apply a probability-weighted approach to consider the likelihood of different cash flow assumptions and possible outcomes including selling in the near term or holding for the remaining estimated
 
useful life. If an impairment of the carrying value has occurred, we determine the amount of the impairment recognized in the financial statements by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
     For assets identified to be disposed of in the future and considered held for sale in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," we compare the carrying value to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to determine if recognition of an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed of, the estimated fair value, which includes estimated cash flows from operations until the assumed date of sale, is recalculated when related events or circumstances change.
     We evaluate our investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our management's judgment, that the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, we compare our estimate of fair value of the investment to the carrying value of the investment to determine whether an impairment has occurred. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value and we consider the decline in value to be other-than-temporary, the excess of the carrying value over the fair value is recognized in the consolidated financial statements as an impairment.
     Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows and an asset's fair value. Additionally, judgment is used to determine the probability of sale with respect to assets considered for disposal. The use of alternate judgments and/or assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements.
     
Capitalization of interest
     We capitalize interest on major projects during construction. Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC exists, on internally generated funds as a component of . The rates used by regulated companies are calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies are based on the average interest rate on debt. The benefit of interest capitalized on internally generated funds for regulated entities is reported in below .
other income  net
other income  net
operating income
     Additionally, Exploration & Production capitalizes interest on those construction projects with construction periods of at least three months and a total project cost in excess of $1 million. Exploration & Production capitalizes interest on equity investments when the investee is undergoing construction in preparation for its planned principal operations.
     
Employee stock-based awards
     Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for stock-based awards to employees and nonmanagement directors (see Note 13) under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, as permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123). Compensation cost for stock options was not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years prior to 2006 as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of the grant. Prior to January 1, 2006, compensation cost was recognized for restricted stock units. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified-prospective method. Under this method, compensation cost recognized in 2006 includes: (1) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted through December 31, 2005, but for which the requisite service period had not been completed as of December 31, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (2) compensation cost for most share-based payments granted subsequent to December 31, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The performance targets for certain performance-based restricted stock units have not been established and therefore expense is not currently recognized. Expense
 
associated with these performance-based awards will be recognized in future periods when performance targets are established. Results for prior periods have not been restated.
     Total stock-based compensation expense for the year ending December 31, 2006, was $43.9 million, of which $2.9 million is included in . This amount reflects a reduction of $.3 million of previously recognized compensation cost for restricted stock units related to the estimated number of awards expected to be forfeited. This adjustment is not considered material for reporting as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Measured but unrecognized stock-based compensation expense at December 31, 2006, was approximately $50 million, which does not include the effect of estimated forfeitures of $1.9 million. This amount is comprised of approximately $13 million related to stock options and approximately $37 million related to restricted stock units. These amounts are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.
income (loss) from discontinued operations
     As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R), our and for the year ending December 31, 2006, are approximately $17.6 million and $11.3 million lower, respectively, than if we continued to account for share-based compensation under APB No. 25. For the year ending December 31, 2006, both basic and diluted earnings per share are $.02 lower due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R).
income from continuing operations before income taxes
net income
     The following table illustrates the effect on and for the years ending December 31, 2005 and 2004, if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to options granted. For purposes of this pro forma disclosure, the value of the options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and amortized to expense over the vesting period of the options.
net income
earnings per common share
     Pro forma amounts for 2005 include compensation expense from awards of our company stock made in 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002. Pro forma amounts for 2004 include compensation expense from awards made in 2004, 2003, 2002, and 2001. Also included in 2004 pro forma expense is $3.3 million of incremental expense associated with a stock option exchange program.
     
Income taxes
     We include the operations of our subsidiaries in our consolidated tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the financial basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. Our management's judgment and income tax assumptions are used to determine the levels, if any, of valuation allowances associated with deferred tax assets.
 
     
Earnings (loss) per common share
     is based on the sum of the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding and issuable restricted stock units. includes any dilutive effect of stock options, unvested restricted stock units and, for applicable periods presented, convertible debt, unless otherwise noted.
Basic earnings (loss) per common share
Diluted earnings (loss) per common share
     
Foreign currency translation
     Certain of our foreign subsidiaries and equity method investees use their local currency as their functional currency. These foreign currencies include the Canadian dollar, British pound and Euro. Assets and liabilities of certain foreign subsidiaries and equity investees are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the combined statements of operations and our share of the results of operations of our equity affiliates are translated into the U.S. dollar at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of .
other comprehensive income (loss)
     Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
     
Issuance of equity of consolidated subsidiary
     Sales of residual equity interests in a consolidated subsidiary are accounted for as capital transactions. No adjustments to capital are made for sales of preferential interests in a subsidiary. No gain or loss is recognized on these transactions.
     
Recent Accounting Standards
     In September 2005, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 04-13, "Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty" (EITF 04-13). The consensus states that two or more inventory purchase and sales transactions with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another should be combined as a single exchange transaction for purposes of applying APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions." A nonmonetary exchange of inventory within the same line of business where finished goods inventory is transferred in exchange for the receipt of either raw materials or work in process inventory should be recognized at fair value by the entity transferring the finished goods inventory if fair value is determinable within reasonable limits and the transaction has commercial substance. All other nonmonetary exchanges of inventory within the same line of business should be recognized at the carrying amount of the inventory transferred. EITF 04-13 is effective for new arrangements entered into, and modifications or renewals of existing arrangements, beginning in the first reporting period beginning after March 15, 2006. We applied this Issue during 2006 with no significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140" (SFAS No. 155). With regard to SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," (SFAS No. 133) this Statement permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133, and requires the holder of an interest in securitized financial assets to determine whether the interest is a freestanding derivative or contains an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 also amends SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," (SFAS No. 140) to eliminate a restriction on the passive derivative financial instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may hold. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The fair value election regarding hybrid financial instruments may also be applied upon adoption of SFAS No. 155 to hybrid financial instruments that had been bifurcated prior
 
to adoption of SFAS No. 155. We applied the provisions of SFAS No. 155 beginning in January 2007 with no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140" (SFAS No. 156). This Statement amends SFAS No. 140 with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities from undertaking an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. We applied the provisions of SFAS No. 156 beginning in January 2007 with no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In April 2006, the FASB issued a Staff Position (FSP) on a previously issued Interpretation (FIN), FSP FIN 46(R)-6, "Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)." When determining the variability of an entity in applying FIN 46(R), a reporting enterprise must analyze the design of the entity and consider the nature of the risks in the entity, and determine the purpose for which the entity was created and determine the variability the entity is designed to create and pass along to its interest holders. The FSP is effective beginning in the third quarter of 2006 on a prospective basis. We applied this FSP with no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). The Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes under FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The Interpretation prescribes guidance for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. To recognize a tax position, the enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis, that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
     FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The cumulative effect of applying the Interpretation must be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. We adopted FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007, as required. The net impact of the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 is expected to be in the range of a $10 million to $20 million decrease in retained earnings.
     In June 2006, the FASB ratified EITF No. 06-3, "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)" (EITF 06-3). EITF 06-3 addresses the income statement presentation of any tax collected from customers and remitted to a government authority and concludes the presentation of taxes on either a gross basis or a net basis is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed pursuant to APB Opinion No. 22 "Disclosure of Accounting Policies." This is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2006 and will require the financial statement disclosure of any significant taxes recognized on a gross basis. We are reviewing the presentation in our Consolidated Financial Statements and will apply the disclosure provisions of EITF 06-3 with our first quarter 2007 filing.
     In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). This Statement establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and is generally applied prospectively. We will assess the impact of SFAS No. 157 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In September 2006, the FASB issued FSP AUG AIR-1, "Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities" (FSP AUG AIR-1). This FSP addresses the planned major maintenance of assets and prohibits the use of the "accrue-in-advance" method of accounting for these activities in annual and interim reporting periods. The FSP continues to allow the direct expense, built-in overhaul and deferral methods. FSP AUG AIR-1 requires disclosure of the method of accounting for planned major maintenance activities as well as information related to the change
 
from the "accrue-in-advance" method to another method. This FSP is effective for the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2006 and should be applied retrospectively. We adopted this FSP in January 2007 with no significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In December 2006, the FASB issued FSP EITF 00-19-2, "Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements" (FSP EITF 00-19-2). The FSP specifies the contingent obligation to make future payments or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement, whether issued as a separate agreement or included as a provision of a financial instrument or other agreement, should be recognized and measured separately in accordance with FASB SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" and related literature. FSP EITF 00-19-2 further clarifies that a financial instrument subject to a registration payment arrangement should be accounted for in accordance with other applicable generally accepted accounting principles without regard to the contingent obligation to transfer consideration. The FSP applies immediately to registration payment arrangements and the financial instruments subject to those arrangements that are entered into or modified subsequent to December 21, 2006. Whereas, for registration payment arrangements and the financial instruments subject to those arrangements entered into prior to its issuance, the FSP applies to our financial statements for the fiscal year beginning in 2007. We adopted the provisions of FSP EITF 00-19-2 beginning in January 2007 with no impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 establishes a fair value option permitting entities to elect the option to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on specified election dates. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be reported in earnings. The fair value option may be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis, with a few exceptions, is irrevocable and is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007 and should not be applied retrospectively to fiscal years beginning prior to the effective date, except as permitted for early adoption. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year provided the entity makes that choice in the first 120 days of the fiscal year and elects to simultaneously adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 157. At the effective date, an entity may elect the fair value option for eligible items existing at that date and the adjustment for the initial remeasurement of those items to fair value should be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We will assess the impact of SFAS No. 159 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 2. Discontinued Operations
     The businesses discussed below represent components that have been sold or approved for sale by our Board of Directors and are classified as discontinued operations. Therefore, their results of operations (including any impairments, gains or losses) and financial position have been reflected in the consolidated financial statements and notes as discontinued operations.
     
Sale of power business
     On May 21, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. Under the agreement, this amount will be reduced by expected net portfolio cash flows from an April 1, 2007, valuation date through the transaction closing date. Mark-to-market gains and losses between this valuation date and the close of the transaction will not impact the economic value of the sale, although they may change the recorded gain or loss on the sale as derivative assets and liabilities included in the transaction continue to be valued at fair value. We expect the sale to close in 2007.
     In addition, we expect to sell certain remaining power assets. We will retain the exposure related to certain contingent liabilities associated with our power business. (See Note 15.) The following table outlines the impact to our previously reported Power segment.
 
     
Summarized Results of Discontinued Operations
     The following table presents the summarized results of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. for the year ended December 31, 2004, includes charges of approximately $153 million to increase our accrued liability associated with certain Quality Bank litigation matters. (See Note 15.) The for the year ended December 31, 2004, is less than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of net Canadian tax benefits realized from the sale of the Canadian straddle plants partially offset by the United States tax effect of earnings associated with these assets.
Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes
provision for income taxes
 
     
Summarized Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations
     The following table presents the summarized assets and liabilities of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.
     
2006 Activities
     During 2006, we recorded charges of $19.2 million for an adverse arbitration award related to our former chemical fertilizer business, $6 million for a loss contingency in connection with a former exploration business, and $14.7 million associated with an oil purchase contract related to our former Alaska refinery. In addition, we recorded income of $12.7 million related to the reduction of contingent obligations associated with our former distributive power business.
     
2004 Completed Transactions
     
Canadian straddle plants
     On July 28, 2004, we completed the sale of the Canadian straddle plants for approximately $544 million and recognized a $189.8 million pre-tax gain on the sale. These assets were previously written down to estimated fair value, resulting in impairments of $41.7 million during 2003 and $36.8 million in 2002. In 2004, the fair value of the assets increased substantially due primarily to renegotiation of certain customer contracts and a general improvement in the market for processing assets. These operations were part of the Midstream segment.
     
Alaska refining, retail and pipeline operations
     On March 31, 2004, we completed the sale of our Alaska refinery, retail and pipeline operations for approximately $304 million. We received $279 million in cash at the time of sale and $25 million in cash during the
 
second quarter of 2004. Based on information we obtained throughout the sales negotiations process, we recorded impairments of $8 million in 2003 and $18.4 million in 2002. We recognized a $3.6 million pre-tax gain on the sale during first quarter 2004. These operations were part of the previously reported Petroleum Services segment.
     We are party to a pending matter involving pipeline transportation rates charged to our former Alaska refinery in prior periods. While we have no loss exposure in this matter, favorable resolution could result in a refund.
Note 3. Investing Activities
     
Investing Income
     for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, is as follows:
Investing income
 
     for the year ended December 31, 2005, includes:
Loss from investments
     for the year ended December 31, 2004, includes:
Loss from investments
     for the year ended December 31, 2006, includes a $16.4 million impairment of a Venezuelan investment primarily due to a decline in reserve estimates. In 2006, our 10 percent direct working interest in an operating contract was converted to a 4 percent equity interest in a Venezuelan corporation which owns and operates oil and gas activities. Our 4 percent interest is reported as a cost method investment; previously, we accounted for our working interest using the proportionate consolidation method.
Impairments of cost-based investments
     for the year ended December 31, 2004, includes a $20.8 million impairment of our investment in an Indonesian toll road, primarily due to increased uncertainty of the Indonesian economy.
Impairments of cost-based investments
 
     
Investments
     at December 31, 2006 and 2005, are as follows:
Investments
 
     The difference between the carrying value of our equity investments and the underlying equity in the net assets of the investees is primarily related to impairments previously recognized.
     Dividends and distributions, including those discussed below, received from companies accounted for by the equity method were $115.6 million in 2006 and $447.4 million in 2005. These transactions reduced the carrying value of our investments.
     
Gulfstream
     In 2005, we received a $310.5 million distribution from Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream) following its debt offering. We also received dividends from Gulfstream of $41.5 million in 2006 and $60.5 million in 2005.
     
Discovery
     During 2005, our Midstream subsidiary acquired an additional 16.67 percent in Discovery, which was later reduced by 6.67 percent due to a nonaffiliated member exercising its purchase option. After these transactions, we hold a 60 percent interest in Discovery. We continue to account for this investment under the equity method due to the voting provisions of Discovery's limited liability company which provide the other member of Discovery significant participatory rights such that we do not control the investment.
     Additionally, we contributed $40.7 million during 2005 to Discovery for planned capital expenditures. Each owner contributed an amount equal to their respective ownership percentage, thus having no impact on the overall ownership allocation. We received distributions from Discovery of $27.2 million in 2006 and $31.3 million in 2005, which reduced the carrying value of our investment.
     
Longhorn
     Based on management's outlook for Longhorn at the end of the second quarter 2005, we assessed our equity investment in Longhorn to determine if there had been an other-than-temporary decline in its fair value. As a result, we recorded an impairment of $49.1 million. In the fourth quarter of 2005, management of Longhorn decided to pursue a strategy of the sale of Longhorn. Based on initial indications from potential buyers, we determined that our Longhorn investment would require full impairment. Therefore, in fourth quarter 2005, we recorded a $38.1 million impairment to write off the remaining investment in Longhorn.
 
     We continue to have an equity ownership interest in Longhorn, including 94.7 percent of the Class B Interests and 21.3 percent of the Common Interests, even though the management of Longhorn completed an asset sale of the pipeline during the third quarter of 2006. Summarized results of operations of equity method investments in 2006, as presented below, reflect the impact of Longhorn's loss on this sale. As a result of the sale, we received full payment of the $10 million secured bridge loan that we provided Longhorn during 2005.
     
Aux Sable
     During 2005, we decided to solicit sales offers for our equity investment in Aux Sable, a natural gas liquids extraction and fractionation facility. Based on initial indications of potential sales proceeds, management concluded that there was an other-than-temporary decline in fair value below carrying value. Accordingly, we recorded an impairment of $23 million.
     
Summarized Financial Position and Results of Operations of Equity Method Investments
     Financial position at December 31:
     Results of operations for the years ended December 31:
     
Guarantees on Behalf of Investees
     We have guaranteed commercial letters of credit totaling $20 million on behalf of ACCROVEN. These expire in January 2008 and have no carrying value.
     We have provided guarantees on behalf of certain entities in which we have an equity ownership interest. These generally guarantee operating performance measures and the maximum potential future exposure cannot be determined. There are no expiration dates associated with these guarantees. No amounts have been accrued at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
Note 4. Asset Sales and Other Accruals
     Significant gains or losses from asset sales and other accruals or adjustments reflected in within for the years noted are as follows:
other (income) expense  net
segment costs and expenses
     
Additional Items
     within our Gas Pipeline segment reported in 2005 includes:
Costs and operating expenses
     within our Gas Pipeline segment in 2005 includes:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Note 5. Provision for Income Taxes
     The from continuing operations includes:
provision for income taxes
 
     Reconciliations from the from continuing operations at the federal statutory rate to the realized are as follows:
provision for income taxes
provision for income taxes
     Utilization of foreign operating loss carryovers reduced the provision for income taxes by $3 million and $13 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2004, the utilization of foreign tax credits reduced the provision for income taxes by $12 million.
     includes $144 million, $72 million, and $64 million of international income in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.
Income from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle
     We provide for income taxes using the asset and liability method as required by SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." As a result of additional analysis of our tax basis and book basis asset and liabilities, we recorded a tax provision of $7.4 million and a tax benefit of $20.2 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, to adjust the overall deferred income tax liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
     During the course of audits of our business by domestic and foreign tax authorities, we frequently face challenges regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our various tax filing positions, we record a liability for probable tax contingencies. In association with this liability, we record an estimate of related interest and tax exposure as a component of our current tax provision. The impact of this accrual is included within in our reconciliation of the tax provision to the federal statutory rate.
other  net
     One of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Transco Coal Gas Company, was engaged in a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in which the principle issue was the recapture of certain income tax credits associated with the construction and operation of a coal gasification plant in North Dakota by Great Plains Gasification Associates, a partnership in which Transco Coal Gas Company was a partner in the 1980's. The IRS took alternative positions that alleged a disposition date for purposes of tax credit recapture that was earlier than the position taken in the partnership tax return. After settlement negotiations failed, the matter was tried before the U.S. Tax Court in February 2005. On December 27, 2006, the Tax Court ruled that the partnership utilized the appropriate disposition date for purposes of tax credit recapture.
 
     Significant components of and as of December 31, 2006, and 2005, are as follows:
deferred tax liabilities
deferred tax assets
     The at December 31, 2006, serves to reduce the recognized tax benefit associated with foreign carryovers to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized. The at December 31, 2005 serves to reduce the recognized tax benefit associated with charitable contribution carryovers and foreign carryovers to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized.
valuation allowance
valuation allowance
     Undistributed earnings of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2006, totaled approximately $198 million. No provision for deferred U.S. income taxes has been made for these subsidiaries because we intend to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations.
     Cash payments for income taxes (net of refunds) were $79 million, $230 million, and $8 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Cash tax payments include settlements with taxing authorities associated with prior period audits of $42 million and $204 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
     At December 31, 2006, federal net operating loss carryovers are $509 million. We expect to utilize our net operating loss carryovers prior to expiration in 2022 through 2025. We also expect to utilize $13 million of charitable contribution carryovers prior to their expiration in 2007 through 2010. We do not expect to be able to utilize our $36.1 million foreign deferred tax assets related to carryovers.
     In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). We adopted the Interpretation beginning January 1, 2007. The impact of this adoption is more fully described in Note 1.
 
Note 6. Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations
     Basic and diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, are:
 
     Approximately 27.5 million weighted-average shares related to the assumed conversion of convertible debentures, as well as the related interest, have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2004. Inclusion of these shares would have an antidilutive effect on diluted earnings per common share. If no other components used to calculate diluted earnings per common share change, we estimate the assumed conversion of convertible debentures would have become dilutive and therefore would be included in diluted earnings per common share at an amount of $198.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
income from continuing operations available to common stockholders
     The table below includes information related to stock options that were outstanding at the end of each respective year but have been excluded from the computation of weighted-average stock options due to the option exercise price exceeding the fourth quarter weighted-average market price of our common shares.
Note 7. Employee Benefit Plans
     We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans in which all eligible employees participate. Currently, eligible employees earn benefits primarily based on a cash balance formula. Various other formulas, as defined in the plan documents, are utilized to calculate the retirement benefits for plan participants not covered by the cash balance formula. At the time of retirement, participants may receive annuity payments, a lump sum payment or a combination of lump sum and annuity payments. In addition to our pension plans, we currently provide subsidized
 
medical and life insurance benefits (other postretirement benefits) to certain eligible participants. Generally, employees hired after December 31, 1991, are not eligible for these benefits, except for participants that were employees of Transco Energy Company on December 31, 1995, and other miscellaneous defined participant groups. Certain of these other postretirement benefit plans, particularly the subsidized medical benefit plans, provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing features such as deductibles, co-payments, and co-insurance. The accounting for these plans anticipates future cost-sharing that is consistent with our expressed intent to increase the retiree contribution level generally in line with health care cost increases. We do not expect that the sale of our power business will have a significant impact on our employee benefit plans. (See Note 2.)
     
SFAS No. 158 Adoption
     In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" (SFAS No. 158). This Statement requires sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans to recognize the funded status of their pension and other postretirement benefit plans in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial position, and provide additional disclosures. On December 31, 2006, we adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158, the effect of which has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006, as described below. The adoption had no impact on the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005 or 2004. SFAS No. 158's provisions regarding the change in the measurement date of postretirement benefit plans are not applicable as we already use a measurement date of December 31. There is no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2006, or for any periods presented related to the adoption of SFAS No. 158, nor will our future operating results be affected by the adoption.
     Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 158, accounting rules allowed for the delayed recognition of certain actuarial gains and losses caused by differences between actual and assumed outcomes, as well as charges or credits caused by plan changes impacting the benefit obligations which were attributed to participants' prior service. These unrecognized net actuarial gains or losses and unrecognized prior service costs or credits represented the difference between the plans' funded status and the amount recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In accordance with SFAS No. 158, we recorded adjustments to , net of income taxes, to recognize the funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. For our FERC-regulated gas pipelines, we recorded the adjustment to for our other postretirement benefit plans. These adjustments represent the previously unrecognized net actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior service costs or credits. The detail of the effect of adopting SFAS No. 158 is provided in the following table.
accumulated other comprehensive loss
net regulatory liabilities
     The adjustments recorded to and will be recognized as components of or and amortized over future periods in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," and SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in the same manner as prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 158. Actuarial gains and losses that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized as or in the same period will now be recognized in and These amounts will be recognized subsequently as a component of or following the same basis as the amounts recognized in and upon adoption of SFAS No. 158.
accumulated other comprehensive loss
net regulatory liabilities
net periodic pension expense
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
net periodic pension
other postretirement benefit expense
other comprehensive income (loss)
net regulatory liabilities.
net periodic pension
other postretirement benefit expense
accumulated other comprehensive loss
net regulatory liabilities
 
     The effects of adopting SFAS No. 158 on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December, 31, 2006, are presented in the following tables. The disclosures in this note exclude the impact of a pension plan of an equity method investee.
 
     Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 158, we had computed an additional minimum pension liability of $10.2 million. The effect of recognizing this additional minimum pension liability is included as of $4.9 million (net of taxes of $3.1 million) and of $2.2 million under the "Prior to SFAS No. 158 Adoption" column within the previous table.
accumulated other comprehensive loss
net regulatory liabilities
     at December 31, 2006 includes the following:
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
     includes unrecognized prior service credits of $4.6 million and unrecognized net actuarial gains of $8.2 million associated with our FERC-regulated gas pipelines. These amounts have not yet been recognized in The prior service credit included in and expected to be recognized in in 2007 is $1.5 million. No actuarial gains included in are expected to be recognized in in 2007.
Net regulatory liabilities
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense.
net regulatory liabilities
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
net regulatory liabilities
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
 
     
Benefit Obligations
     The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets for pension benefits and other postretirement benefits for the years indicated. It also presents a reconciliation of the funded status of these benefit plans to the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005. The annual measurement date for our plans is December 31.
     Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005 consist of:
     The net underfunded/overfunded status of our pension plans presented in the previous table is recognized in the December 31, 2006, Consolidated Balance Sheet in as $114.1 million for our overfunded pension plans and in as $1.0 million and in as $39.1 million for our underfunded pension plans. The underfunded status of our other postretirement benefit plans presented in the previous table is recognized in the December 31, 2006, Consolidated Balance Sheet in as $9.2 million and in as $122.7 million. The plan assets within our other postretirement benefit plans are intended to be used for the payment of benefits for certain groups of participants. The for the other postretirement benefit plans represent the actuarial present value of benefits included in the benefit obligation payable in 2007 for the groups of participants whose benefits are not expected to be paid from plan assets.
noncurrent assets
current liabilities
noncurrent liabilities
current liabilities
noncurrent liabilities
current liabilities
 
     The shown in 2005 in the table above is the portion of the additional minimum pension liability recognized by our FERC-regulated gas pipelines. As required by FERC accounting guidelines, our FERC-regulated gas pipelines were required to record the effect of an additional minimum pension liability to a instead of
regulatory asset
regulatory asset
accumulated other comprehensive loss.
     The 2006 of $13.3 million for our pension plans included in the table of changes in benefit obligation is due primarily to the impact of actual results differing from assumed results such as compensation and participant deaths, offset by the net impact of changes in assumptions utilized to calculate the benefit obligation including the discount rate, mortality and expected form of benefit payments. The 2005 of $2.5 million for our pension plans included in the table of changes in benefit obligation reflects a gain of approximately $68 million for the cumulative impact of a correction of an error determined to have occurred in 2003 and 2004. The error was associated with our third-party actuarial computation of the benefit obligation which resulted in the identification of errors in certain Transco participant data involving annuity contract information utilized for 2003 and 2004. This gain is offset substantially by the impact of changes to the discount rates utilized to determine the benefit obligation. The 2006 of $64.2 million for our other postretirement benefit plans included in the table of changes in benefit obligation is due primarily to the impact of changes in assumptions utilized to calculate the benefit obligation including claims costs, health care cost trend rates and the discount rate, as well as actual results differing from assumed results such as participant deaths and terminations prior to retirement. The 2005 of $51.9 million for our other postretirement benefit plans included in the table of changes in benefit obligation is due primarily to the impact of changes in assumptions utilized to calculate the benefit obligation including the health care cost trend rates, discount rate and estimated cost savings related to the Medicare Prescription Drug Act.
actuarial loss
actuarial gain
actuarial gain
actuarial loss
     The current accounting rules for the determination of and allow for the delayed recognition of gains and losses caused by differences between actual and assumed outcomes for items such as estimated return on plan assets, or caused by changes in assumptions for items such as discount rates or estimated future compensation levels. The presented in the previous tables and recorded in and at December 31, 2006, represents the cumulative net deferred losses from these types of differences or changes which have not yet been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income. A portion of the net unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the participants' average remaining future years of service, which is approximately 12 years for our pension plans and 13 years for our other postretirement benefit plans.
net periodic pension
other postretirement benefit expense
unrecognized net actuarial loss
accumulated other comprehensive loss
net regulatory liabilities
     We have multiple pension plans that are aggregated as prescribed for reporting purposes including both overfunded and underfunded pension plans.
     Information for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
     Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
 
     
Net Periodic Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Expense (Income)
     and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, consists of the following:
Net periodic pension expense (income)
other postretirement benefit expense
     for 2005 includes a $17.1 million reduction to expense to record the cumulative impact of a correction of an error determined to have occurred in 2003 and 2004. The error was associated with our third-party actuarial computation of annual which resulted from the identification of errors in certain Transco participant data involving annuity contract information utilized for 2003 and 2004. The adjustment is reflected as $16.1 million within and $1.0 million within
Net periodic pension expense (income)
net periodic pension expense
recognized net actuarial (gain) loss
regulatory asset amortization (deferral).
     The differences in the amount of actuarially determined and the other postretirement benefit costs recovered in rates for our FERC-regulated gas pipelines are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability. At December 31, 2006, we have a regulatory asset of $8.5 million for Transco and a regulatory liability of $13.3 million for Northwest Pipeline related to these deferrals. At December 31, 2005, we had a regulatory asset of $24.3 million for Transco and a regulatory liability of $10.8 million at Northwest Pipeline related to these deferrals. These amounts will be reflected in future rates based on Transco and Northwest Pipeline's rate structures.
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
 
     
Key Assumptions
     The weighted-average assumptions utilized to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2006, and 2005, are as follows:
     The weighted-average assumptions utilized to determine for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, are as follows:
net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit expense
     The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows. With the assistance of our third-party actuary, the plans were analyzed and discount rates based on a yield curve comprised of high-quality corporate bonds published by a large securities firm were matched to a highly correlated published index of high-quality corporate bonds. Based on an analysis performed between each of the plans' yield curve discount rates and the index, a formula was developed to determine the December 31, 2006, discount rates based upon the year-end published index.
     The expected long-term rates of return on plan assets were determined by combining a review of the historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans' Investment Policy Statement, and the capital market projections provided by our independent investment consultant for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested and the target weightings of each asset classification.
     The mortality assumptions used to determine the obligations for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are related to the experience of the plans and to our third-party actuary's best estimate of expected plan mortality. The selected mortality tables are among the most recent tables available.
     The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2007 is 9.3 percent, and systematically decreases to 5.5 percent by 2013. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
     
Medicare Prescription Drug Act
     In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) beginning in 2006 as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. Our health care plans for retirees include prescription drug coverage. Prior to 2005, our plans were amended to coordinate and pay secondary to any part of Medicare, including prescription drug benefits covered by Medicare Part D, which resulted in a decrease in the benefit obligation of $75.5 million. Beginning in 2005, the net reduction to the obligation was being amortized over approximately seven
 
years which was the participants' average remaining years of service to full eligibility for benefits. It is reflected in the in the table of components of for 2005.
amortization of prior service credit
net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
     Due to anticipated difficulties to administer our plans as previously amended to coordinate and pay secondary to Medicare Part D in 2006, we amended our plans in June 2005 to generally provide primary prescription drug coverage and apply for the federal subsidy in 2006. As a result of the amendment, generally our plans are designed to be actuarially equivalent to the standard coverage under Medicare Part D. The amendment increased our benefit obligation by $51.2 million at June 30, 2005, and is reflected as a in the table of changes in benefit obligation for 2005. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, the increase to the obligation is being amortized over the participants' average remaining years of service to full eligibility for benefits, which is approximately seven years. for 2005, reflects an increase of $7.1 million, including an increase in of $.3 million, an increase in of $.3 million, an increase in of $2.6 million, and an increase in of $3.9 million, resulting from the plan amendment. We are continuing to evaluate coordination with Medicare Part D as a strategy to decrease our benefit obligation in the future and will closely monitor the development of systems and capabilities of third-party administrators to coordinate prescription drug benefits with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
plan amendment
Net periodic other postretirement benefit expense
recognized net actuarial loss
service cost
interest cost
amortization of prior service credit
     
Plan Assets
     The investment policy for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans articulates an investment philosophy in accordance with ERISA which governs the investment of the assets in a diversified portfolio. The investment strategy for the assets of the pension plans and approximately one half of the assets of the other postretirement benefit plans include maximizing returns with reasonable and prudent levels of risk. The investment returns on the approximate one half of remaining assets of the other postretirement benefit plans is subject to federal income tax, therefore the investment strategy also includes investing in a tax efficient manner.
     The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocations at December 31, 2006, and 2005 and target asset allocation at December 31, 2006, by asset category.
     Included in equity securities are investments in commingled funds that invest entirely in equity securities and comprise 38 percent and 37 percent of the pension plans' weighted-average assets at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and 27 percent and 26 percent of the other postretirement benefit plans' weighted-average assets at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Other assets are comprised primarily of cash and cash equivalents for the pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans.
     The assets are invested in accordance with the target allocations identified in the previous table. The investment policy provides for minimum and maximum ranges for the broad asset classes in the previous table. Additional target allocations are identified for specific classes of equity securities. The asset allocation ranges established by the investment policy are based upon a long-term investment perspective. The ranges are more heavily weighted toward equity securities since the liabilities of the pension and other postretirement benefit plans are long-term in nature and historically equity securities have significantly outperformed other asset classes over long periods of time.
     Equity security investments are restricted to high-quality, readily marketable securities that are actively traded on the major U.S. and foreign national exchanges. Investment in Williams' securities or an entity in which Williams has a majority ownership is prohibited except where these securities may be owned in a commingled investment
 
vehicle in which the pension plans' trust invests. No more than five percent of the total stock portfolio valued at market may be invested in the common stock of any one corporation. The following securities and transactions are not authorized: unregistered securities, commodities or commodity contracts, short sales or margin transactions or other leveraging strategies. Investment strategies using options or futures are not authorized.
     Debt security investments are restricted to high-quality, marketable securities that include U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and U.S. Government guaranteed obligations, and investment grade corporate issues. The overall rating of the debt security assets is required to be at least "A", according to the Moody's or Standard & Poor's rating system. No more than five percent of the total portfolio at the time of purchase may be invested in the debt securities of any one issuer. U.S. Government guaranteed and agency securities are exempt from this provision.
     During 2006, 11 active investment managers and one passive investment manager managed substantially all of the pension and other postretirement benefit plans' funds, each of whom had responsibility for managing a specific portion of these assets.
     Periodically, an asset and liability study is performed to determine the optimal asset mix to meet future benefit obligations. The most recent pension asset and liability study was performed in 2001.
     
Plan Benefit Payments and Employer Contributions
     The following are the expected benefits to be paid by the plan and the expected federal prescription drug subsidy to be received in the next ten years. These estimates are based on the same assumptions previously discussed and reflect future service as appropriate. The actuarial assumptions are based on long-term expectations and include, but are not limited to, assumptions as to average expected retirement age and form of benefit payment. Actual benefit payments could differ significantly from expected benefit payments if near-term participant behaviors differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions.
     We expect to contribute approximately $41 million to our pension plans and approximately $16 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2007.
     
Defined Contribution Plans
     We also maintain defined contribution plans for the benefit of substantially all of our employees. Generally, plan participants may contribute a portion of their compensation on a pre-tax and after-tax basis in accordance with the plan's guidelines. We match employees' contributions up to certain limits. Costs recognized for these plans were $18.7 million in 2006, $16.8 million in 2005, and $16.9 million in 2004. One of our defined contribution plans was amended as of July 1, 2005, to convert one of the funds within the plan to a nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan (ESOP). The 2005 compensation cost related to the ESOP of $.7 million is included in the $16.8 million of contributions, previously mentioned above, and represents the contribution made in consideration for employee services rendered in 2005. It is measured by the amount of cash contributed to the ESOP. The shares held by the ESOP are treated as outstanding when computing earnings per share and the dividends on the shares held by the ESOP are recorded as a component of retained earnings. For 2006 and future years, there are no contributions to this
 
ESOP, other than dividend reinvestment, as contributions for purchase of our stock is now restricted within this defined contribution plan.
Note 8. Inventories
     at December 31, 2006, and 2005, are as follows:
Inventories
     determined using the LIFO cost method were approximately 11 percent and 8 percent of at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The remaining were primarily determined using the average-cost method.
Inventories
inventories
inventories
     If valued using the LIFO cost method at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were valued at current replacement cost, the amounts would increase by $22 million and $59 million, respectively.
inventories
     reflects a $32.1 million charge recorded in 2005 for prior period accounting and valuation corrections.
Natural gas in underground storage
Note 9. Property, Plant and Equipment
     at December 31, 2006, and 2005, is as follows:
Property, plant and equipment  net
 
     expense for was $862.5 million in 2006, $735.9 million in 2005, and $662.3 million in 2004.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
property, plant and equipment  net
     includes approximately $685 million at December 31, 2006, and $374 million at December 31, 2005, of construction in progress which is not yet subject to depreciation. In addition, property of Exploration & Production includes approximately $414 million at December 31, 2006, and $443 million at December 31, 2005, of capitalized costs related to properties with unproven reserves not yet subject to depletion.
Property, plant and equipment  net
     includes approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006, and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2005, related to amounts in excess of the original cost of the regulated facilities within Gas Pipeline as a result of our prior acquisitions. This amount is being amortized over 40 years using the straight-line amortization method. Current FERC policy does not permit recovery through rates for amounts in excess of original cost of construction.
Property, plant and equipment  net
 
     
Asset Retirement Obligations
     In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143." The Interpretation clarifies that the term "conditional asset retirement" as used in SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The Interpretation also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation.
     We adopted the Interpretation on December 31, 2005. In accordance with the Interpretation, we estimated future retirement obligations for certain assets previously considered to have an indeterminate life. As a result, we recorded an increase in of $29.4 million, an increase in of $12.2 million, and a of $1.7 million (net of $1.0 million of taxes). We also recorded a $14.5 million regulatory asset in for retirement costs expected to be recovered through regulated rates. Had we implemented the Interpretation at the beginning of 2003, the financial statement impact at December 31, 2004 would not be substantially different than the impact at December 31, 2005.
other liabilities and deferred income
property, plant and equipment  net
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle
other assets and deferred charges
     The asset retirement obligation at December 31, 2006 and 2005 is $333 million and $93 million, respectively. The increase in the obligation in 2006 is due primarily to obtaining additional information that revised our estimation of our asset retirement obligation for certain assets in our Exploration & Production, Gas Pipeline and Midstream segments. Factors affected by the additional information included estimated settlement dates, estimated settlement costs and inflation rates.
     The accrued obligations relate to producing wells, underground storage caverns, offshore platforms, fractionation facilities, gas gathering well connections and pipelines, and gas transmission facilities. At the end of the useful life of each respective asset, we are legally obligated to plug both producing wells and storage caverns and remove any related surface equipment, remove surface equipment and restore land at fractionation facilities, to dismantle offshore platforms, to cap certain gathering pipelines at the wellhead connection and remove any related surface equipment, and to remove certain components of gas transmission facilities from the ground.
Note 10. Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
     Under our cash-management system, certain cash accounts reflected negative balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for payment. These negative balances represent obligations and have been reclassified to includes approximately $44 million of these negative balances at December 31, 2006, and $69 million at December 31, 2005.
accounts payable. Accounts payable
     On May 26, 2004, we were released from certain historical indemnities, primarily related to environmental remediation, for an agreement to pay $117.5 million. We had previously deferred $113 million of a gain on sale related to these indemnities. At the date of sale, the deferred revenue and identified obligations related to the indemnities totaled $102 million. The carrying value of this obligation is $33.9 million at December 31, 2006, and $51.3 million at December 31, 2005. The obligation will be settled with a payment of $35 million on July 1, 2007.
 
     at December 31, 2006, and 2005, are as follows:
Accrued liabilities
 
Note 11. Debt, Leases and Banking Arrangements
     
Long-Term Debt
     at December 31, 2006 and 2005, is:
Long-term debt
 
     
Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities (credit facilities)
     In May 2006, we obtained an unsecured, three-year, $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, replacing our $1.275 billion secured revolving credit facility. The new unsecured facility contains similar terms and financial covenants as the secured facility, but contains additional restrictions on asset sales, certain subsidiary debt and sale-leaseback transactions. The facility is guaranteed by Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC and we guarantee obligations of Williams Partners L.P. for up to $75 million. Northwest Pipeline and Transco each have access to $400 million and Williams Partners L.P. has access to $75 million under the facility to the extent not otherwise utilized by us. Interest is calculated based on a choice of two methods: a fluctuating rate equal to the lender's base rate plus an applicable margin or a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR plus an applicable margin. We are required to pay a commitment fee (currently .25 percent annually) based on the unused portion of the facility. The margins and
 
commitment fee are generally based on the specific borrower's senior unsecured long-term debt ratings. Significant financial covenants under the credit agreement include the following:
     Our $500 million and $700 million facilities provide for both borrowings and issuing letters of credit but are expected to be used primarily for issuing letters of credit. We are required to pay the funding bank fixed fees at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.64 percent and 2.29 percent for the $500 million and $700 million facilities, respectively, on the total committed amount of the facilities. In addition, we pay interest on any borrowings at a fluctuating rate comprised of either a base rate or LIBOR.
     The funding bank syndicated its associated credit risk through a private offering that allows for the resale of certain restricted securities to qualified institutional buyers. To facilitate the syndication of these facilities, the bank established trusts funded by the institutional investors. The assets of the trusts serve as collateral to reimburse the bank for our borrowings in the event that the facilities are delivered to the investors as described below. Thus, we have no asset securitization or collateral requirements under the facilities. Upon the occurrence of certain credit events, letters of credit under the agreement become cash collateralized creating a borrowing under the facilities. Concurrently, the funding bank can deliver the facilities to the institutional investors, whereby the investors replace the funding bank as lender under the facilities. Upon such occurrence, we will pay:
     At December 31, 2006, no loans are outstanding under our credit facilities. Letters of credit issued under our credit facilities are:
     
Exploration & Production's Credit Agreement
     Exploration & Production has recently entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Margin requirements, if any, under this new facility are dependent on the level of hedging and on natural gas reserves value.
     
Issuances and retirements
     On May 28, 2003, we issued $300 million of 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2033. These notes, which are callable after seven years, are convertible at the option of the holder into our common stock
 
at a conversion price of approximately $10.89 per share. In November 2005, we initiated an offer to convert these debentures to shares of our common stock. In January 2006, we converted approximately $220.2 million of the debentures. (See Note 12.)
     In April 2006, Transco issued $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. In October 2006, Transco completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In April 2006, we retired a secured floating-rate term loan for $488.9 million, including outstanding principal and accrued interest. The loan was due in 2008 and secured by substantially all of the assets of Williams Production RMT Company. The loan was retired using a combination of cash and revolving credit borrowings.
     In June 2006, Northwest Pipeline issued $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. In October 2006, Northwest Pipeline completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     In June 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired 25.1 percent of our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $360 million. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $150 million private debt offering of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2011 and an equity offering of approximately $225 million in net proceeds. In December 2006, Williams Partners L.P. acquired the remaining 74.9 percent interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.223 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $600 million private debt offering of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017, a private equity offering of approximately $350 million of common and Class B units, and a public equity offering of approximately $294 million in net proceeds. The debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively. Williams Four Corners LLC owns certain gathering, processing and treating assets in the San Juan Basin in Colorado and New Mexico.
     Aggregate minimum maturities of (excluding capital leases and unamortized discount and premium) for each of the next five years are as follows:
long-term debt
     Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) were as follows: 2006  $611 million; 2005  $625 million; and 2004  $849 million.
Leases-Lessee
     Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2006, are payable as follows:
 
     The above amounts do not include obligations of approximately $1.9 billion related to a tolling agreement that is accounted for as an operating lease as a result of changes to the contract terms in 2004 after implementation of EITF 01-8. (See Note 1.) The tolling agreement allows for the exclusive right to capacity and fuel conversion services as well as ancillary services associated with electric generation facilities that are currently in operation in southern California. Current annual rentals under this tolling agreement range from approximately $157 million to $169 million through 2017, with approximately $70 million remaining to be paid in 2018. Certain transactions resulting from the tolling agreements are accounted for as operating subleases. Total rentals to be received from these operating subleases are approximately $1.1 billion with approximately 4 years remaining on the agreements as of December 31, 2006. This tolling agreement is included in the pending sale of our power business to Bear Energy, LP. (See Note 2.)
     Total rent expense was $68 million in 2006, $65 million in 2005 and $69 million in 2004. Rent expense reported as discontinued operations, primarily related to the tolling agreement, was $175 million (including $11 million of contingent rentals) in 2006 and $161 million (including ($1) million of contingent rentals) in 2005. Rent expense from discontinued operations was offset by approximately $264 million (including $8 million of contingent rental income) in 2006 and $172 million (including $7 million of contingent rental income) in 2005 resulting from sales and other transactions made possible by the tolling agreement. Contingent rentals are primarily based on utilization of the leased property or changes in the capacity and availability of the power generating facility.
Note 12. Stockholders' Equity
     In November 2005, we initiated an offer to convert our 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. In January 2006, we converted approximately $220.2 million of the debentures in exchange for 20.2 million shares of common stock, a $25.8 million cash premium, and $1.5 million of accrued interest.
     We maintain a Stockholder Rights Plan, as amended and restated on September 21, 2004, under which each outstanding share of our common stock has a right (as defined in the plan) attached. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an exercise price of $50 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. The rights may be exercised only if an Acquiring Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more of our common stock or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of our common stock. The rights, which until exercised do not have voting rights, expire in 2014 and may be redeemed at a price of $.01 per right prior to their expiration, or within a specified period of time after the occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the owner of more than 15 percent of our common stock, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, our common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. In the event we are engaged in a merger, business combination, or 50 percent or more of our assets, cash flow or earnings power is sold or transferred, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.
Note 13. Stock-Based Compensation
     
Plan Information
     The Williams Companies, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan (the Plan) was approved by stockholders on May 16, 2002, and amended and restated on May 15, 2003, and January 23, 2004. The Plan provides for common-stock-based awards to both employees and nonmanagement directors. Upon approval by the stockholders, all prior stock plans were terminated resulting in no further grants being made from those plans. However, awards outstanding in those prior plans remain in those plans with their respective terms and provisions.
     The Plan permits the granting of various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options and restricted stock units. Restricted stock units represent deferred share awards subject to time and/or performance-based vesting requirements. Awards may be granted for no consideration other than prior and future services or based on certain financial performance targets being achieved. At December 31, 2006, 41.7 million shares of our common stock were
 
reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and future stock awards, of which 20 million shares were available for future grants. At December 31, 2005, 45 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance, of which 21.6 million were available for future grants.
     
Stock Options
     Stock options are valued at the date of award, which does not precede the approval date, and compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period. Stock options generally become exercisable over a three-year period from the date of grant and generally expire ten years after the grant.
     The following summary reflects stock option activity and related information for the year ending December 31, 2006.
     The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $36.4 million, $42.2 million, and $42.4 million, respectively.
     The following summary provides additional information about stock options that are outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2006.
     The estimated fair value at date of grant of options for our common stock granted in 2006, 2005, and 2004, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, is as follows:
 
The expected dividend yield is based on the average annual dividend yield as of the grant date. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock and the implied volatility of our stock based on traded options. In calculating historical volatility, returns during calendar year 2002 were excluded as the extreme volatility during that time is not reasonably expected to be repeated in the future. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity rates as of the grant date. The expected life of the option is based on historical exercise behavior and expected future experience.
     Cash received from stock option exercises was $34.3 million, $39.4 million and $21.6 million during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The tax benefit realized from stock options exercised during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $13.9 million, $14.2 million and $13.7 million, respectively.
     
Nonvested Restricted Stock Units
     Restricted stock units are generally valued at market value on the grant date of the award and generally vest over three years. Restricted stock unit expense, net of estimated forfeitures, is generally recognized over the vesting period on a straight-line basis.
     The following summary reflects nonvested restricted stock unit activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
     
Other restricted stock unit information
     Performance-based share awards issued under the Plan represent 34 percent of nonvested restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2006. These awards are generally earned at the end of a three-year period based on actual performance against a performance target. Expense associated with these performance-based awards will be recognized in future periods when performance targets are established. Based on the extent to which certain financial targets are achieved, vested shares may range from zero percent to 200 percent of the original award amount.
 
Note 14. Financial Instruments, Derivatives, Guarantees and Concentration of Credit Risk
     
Financial Instruments
     
Fair-value methods
     We use the following methods and assumptions in estimating our fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:
     : The carrying amounts of cash equivalents reported in the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash
     : The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet approximate fair value as these instruments have interest rates approximating marketin the table below consists of auction rate securities and held-to-maturity securities and are reported in in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Other securities, notes and other noncurrent receivables, structured indemnity settlement obligation, margin deposits, and customer margin deposits payable
. Other securities
other current assets and deferred charges
     : The fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using indicative year-end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 87 percent and 89 percent, respectively, of our long-term debt was publicly traded. We use the expertise of outside investment banking firms to assist with the estimate of the fair value of our long-term debt.
Long-term debt
     : The represented in the table below consists primarily of guarantees we have provided in the event of nonpayment by our previously owned communications subsidiary, Williams Communications Group (WilTel), on certain lease performance obligations. To estimate the fair value of the guarantees, the estimated default rate is determined by obtaining the average cumulative issuer-weighted corporate default rate for each guarantee based on the credit rating of WilTel's current owner and the term of the underlying obligation. The default rates are published by Moody's Investors Service.
Guarantees
guarantees
     : Energy derivatives include:
Energy derivatives
The fair value of energy derivatives is determined based on the nature of the underlying transaction and the market in which the transaction is executed. We execute most of these transactions on an organized commodity exchange or in over-the-counter markets in which quoted prices exist for active periods. For contracts with terms that exceed the time period for which actively quoted prices are available, we determine fair value by estimating commodity prices during the illiquid periods utilizing internally developed valuations incorporating information obtained from commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, prices reflected in current transactions, and other market fundamental analysis.
 
     
Carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments
 
     
Energy Derivatives
     Our energy derivative contracts include the following:
     : Futures contracts are standardized commitments through an organized commodity exchange to either purchase or sell a commodity at a future date for a specified price. Futures are generally settled in cash, but may be settled through delivery of the underlying commodity. The fair value of these contacts is generally determined using quoted prices.
Futures contracts
     : Forward contracts are over-the-counter commitments to either purchase or sell a commodity at a future date for a specified price, which involve physical delivery of energy commodities, and may contain either fixed or variable pricing terms. Forward contracts are valued based on prices of the underlying energy commodities over the contract life and contractual or notional volumes with the resulting expected future cash flows discounted to a present value using a risk-free market interest rate.
Forward contracts
     : Swap agreements require us to make payments to (or receive payments from) counterparties based upon the differential between a fixed and variable price or between variable prices of energy commodities at different locations. Swap agreements are valued based on prices of the underlying energy commodities over the contract life and contractual or notional volumes with the resulting expected future cash flows discounted to a present value using a risk-free market interest rate.
Swap agreements
     : Physical and financial option contracts give the buyer the right to exercise the option and receive the difference between a predetermined strike price and a market price at the date of exercise. These contracts are valued based on option pricing models considering prices of the underlying energy commodities over the contract life, volatility of the commodity prices, contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other arrangements, and a risk-free market interest rate.
Option contracts
 
     
Energy commodity cash flow hedges
     We are exposed to market risk from changes in energy commodity prices within our operations. We utilize derivatives to manage our exposure to the variability in expected future cash flows from forecasted purchases and sales of natural gas and electricity attributable to commodity price risk. Certain of these derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133.
     Our former Power segment sells electricity produced by our electric generation facilities, obtained contractually through tolling agreements or obtained through marketplace transactions at different locations throughout the United States. We also buy electricity and capacity to serve our full requirements agreements in the Southeast. To reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues and increase in costs from fluctuations in electricity prices, we enter into fixed-price forward physical sales and purchase contracts and financial option contracts to mitigate the price risk on forecasted electricity sales and purchases.
     The electric generation facilities and tolling agreements of our former Power segment require natural gas for the production of electricity. To reduce our exposure to increasing costs of natural gas due to changes in market prices, we enter into natural gas futures contracts, swap agreements, fixed-price forward physical purchases and financial option contracts to mitigate the price risk on anticipated purchases of natural gas.
     Gas Marketing Services' and our former Power segment's cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the term of the hedge. However, ineffectiveness may be recognized primarily as a result of locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item, changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties, and the hedging derivative contract having an initial fair value upon designation.
     Our Exploration & Production segment produces, buys and sells natural gas at different locations throughout the United States. To reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues from fluctuations in natural gas market prices, we hedge price risk by entering into natural gas futures contracts, swap agreements, and financial option contracts to mitigate the price risk on forecasted sales and purchases of natural gas. We also enter into basis swap agreements to reduce the locational price risk associated with our producing basins. Exploration & Production's cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the term of the hedge. However, ineffectiveness may be recognized primarily as a result of locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item.
     Changes in the fair value of our cash flow hedges are deferred in other comprehensive income and are reclassified into in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted purchases or sales affect earnings, or when it is probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period. During 2006, we reclassified approximately $1 million of net gains from other comprehensive income to earnings as a result of the discontinuance of cash flow hedges because the forecasted transaction did not occur by the end of the originally specified time period. Approximately $20 million and $2 million of net gains from hedge ineffectiveness are included in during 2006 and 2005, respectively. For 2006 and 2005, there are no derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. As of December 31, 2006, we have hedged portions of future cash flows associated with anticipated energy commodity purchases and sales for up to nine years. Based on recorded values at December 31, 2006, approximately $9 million of net gains (net of income tax provision of $6 million) will be reclassified into earnings within the next year. These recorded values are based on market prices of the commodities as of December 31, 2006. Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties, actual gains or losses realized in 2007 will likely differ from these values. These gains or losses will offset net losses or gains that will be realized in earnings from previous unfavorable or favorable market movements associated with underlying hedged transactions.
revenues
revenues
     Our former Power segment elected hedge accounting for certain of its nontrading derivatives in the fourth quarter of 2004 after our Board decided in September 2004 to retain the Power business. Before this election, net changes in the fair value of these derivatives were recognized as revenues.
 
     
Other energy derivatives
     Our Gas Marketing Services segment and discontinued operations have other energy derivatives that have not been designated or do not qualify as SFAS No. 133 hedges. As such, the net change in their fair value is recognized in revenues. Even though they do not qualify for hedge accounting (see in Note 1 for a description of hedge accounting), certain of these derivatives hedge our future cash flows on an economic basis.
derivative instruments and hedging activities
     In addition, our Exploration & Production segment enters into natural gas basis swap agreements that are not designated in a hedging relationship under SFAS No. 133. The fair value of these contracts is approximately $22 million as of December 31, 2006.
     
Other energy-related contracts
     We also hold significant nonderivative energy-related contracts in our Gas Marketing Services and discontinued operations portfolios. These have not been included in the financial instruments table above or in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because they are not derivatives as defined by SFAS No. 133.
     
Guarantees
     In addition to the guarantees and payment obligations discussed elsewhere in these footnotes (see Notes 3 and 15), we have issued guarantees and other similar arrangements with off-balance sheet risk as discussed below.
     In connection with agreements executed prior to our acquisition of Transco to resolve take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transco entered into certain settlements with producers which may require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties that the producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. Transco, through its agent, Gas Marketing Services, continues to purchase gas under contracts which extend, in some cases, through the life of the associated gas reserves. Certain of these contracts contain royalty indemnification provisions that have no carrying value. Producers have received certain demands and may receive other demands, which could result in claims pursuant to royalty indemnification provisions. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the agreement between the producer and Transco. Consequently, the potential maximum future payments under such indemnification provisions cannot be determined. However, management believes that the probability of material payments is remote.
     In connection with the 1993 public offering of units in the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Royalty Trust), our Exploration & Production segment entered into a gas purchase contract for the purchase of natural gas in which the Royalty Trust holds a net profits interest. Under this agreement, we guarantee a minimum purchase price that the Royalty Trust will realize in the calculation of its net profits interest. We have an annual option to discontinue this minimum purchase price guarantee and pay solely based on an index price. The maximum potential future exposure associated with this guarantee is not determinable because it is dependent upon natural gas prices and production volumes. No amounts have been accrued for this contingent obligation as the index price continues to substantially exceed the minimum purchase price.
     We are required by certain foreign lenders to ensure that the interest rates received by them under various loan agreements are not reduced by taxes by providing for the reimbursement of any domestic taxes required to be paid by the foreign lender. The maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnifications is based on the related borrowings. These indemnifications generally continue indefinitely unless limited by the underlying tax regulations and have no carrying value. We have never been called upon to perform under these indemnifications.
     We have provided guarantees in the event of nonpayment by our previously owned communications subsidiary, WilTel, on certain lease performance obligations that extend through 2042. The maximum potential exposure is approximately $46 million at December 31, 2006, and $47 million at December 31, 2005. Our exposure declines
 
systematically throughout the remaining term of WilTel's obligations. The carrying value of these guarantees is approximately $41 million at December 31, 2006.
     Former managing directors of Gulf Liquids are involved in litigation related to the construction of gas processing plants. Gulf Liquids has indemnity obligations to the former managing directors for legal fees and potential losses that may result from this litigation. Claims against these former managing directors have been settled and dismissed after payments on their behalf by directors and officers insurers. Some unresolved issues remain between us and these insurers, but no amounts have been accrued for any potential liability.
     We have guaranteed the performance of a former subsidiary of our wholly owned subsidiary MAPCO Inc., under a coal supply contract. This guarantee was granted by MAPCO Inc. upon the sale of its former subsidiary to a third-party in 1996. The guaranteed contract provides for an annual supply of a minimum of 2.25 million tons of coal. Our potential exposure is dependent on the difference between current market prices of coal and the pricing terms of the contract, both of which are variable, and the remaining term of the contract. Given the variability of the terms, the maximum future potential payments cannot be determined. We believe that our likelihood of performance under this guarantee is remote. In the event we are required to perform, we are fully indemnified by the purchaser of MAPCO Inc.'s former subsidiary. This guarantee expires in December 2010 and has no carrying value.
     
Concentration of Credit Risk
     
Cash equivalents
     Our cash equivalents consist of high-quality securities placed with various major financial institutions with credit ratings at or above BBB by Standard & Poor's or Baa1 by Moody's Investors Service.
     
Accounts and notes receivable
     The following table summarizes concentration of receivables including those related to discontinued operations (see Note 2), net of allowances, by product or service at December 31, 2006 and 2005:
     Natural gas customers include pipelines, distribution companies, producers, gas marketers and industrial users primarily located in the eastern and northwestern United States, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Venezuela and Canada. Customers for power include the California Independent System Operator (ISO), the California Department of Water Resources, and other power marketers and utilities located throughout the United States. As a general policy, collateral is not required for receivables, but customers' financial condition and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.
     
Derivative assets and liabilities
     We have a risk of loss as a result of counterparties not performing pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. Risk of loss results from items including credit considerations and the regulatory environment for which a counterparty transacts. We attempt to minimize credit-risk exposure to derivative counterparties and brokers through formal credit policies, consideration of credit ratings from public ratings agencies, monitoring procedures, master netting agreements and collateral support under certain circumstances.
 
     The concentration of counterparties within the energy and energy trading industry impacts our overall exposure to credit risk in that these counterparties are similarly influenced by changes in the economy and regulatory issues. Additional collateral support could include the following:
     We also enter into master netting agreements to mitigate counterparty performance and credit risk.
     The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts, a portion of which is included in assets of discontinued operations (see Note 2), as of December 31, 2006, is summarized below.
     We assess our credit exposure on a net basis to reflect master netting agreements in place with certain counterparties. We offset our credit exposure to each counterparty with amounts we owe the counterparty under derivative contracts. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31, 2006, is summarized below.
 
     
Revenues
     In 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were no customers for which our sales exceeded 10 percent of our consolidated revenues.
 
Note 15. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
     
Rate and Regulatory Matters and Related Litigation
     Our interstate pipeline subsidiaries have various regulatory proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in certain of these proceedings, a portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been collected subject to refund. The natural gas pipeline subsidiaries have accrued approximately $2 million for potential refunds as of December 31, 2006.
     
Issues Resulting From California Energy Crisis
     Our subsidiary, WPC, whose results of operations were included in our previously reported Power segment (see Note 2), is engaged in power marketing in various geographic areas, including California. Prices charged for power by us and other traders and generators in California and other western states in 2000 and 2001 were challenged in various proceedings, including those before the FERC. These challenges included refund proceedings, summer 2002 90-day contracts, investigations of alleged market manipulation including withholding, gas indices and other gaming of the market, new long-term power sales to the State of California that were subsequently challenged and civil litigation relating to certain of these issues. We have entered into settlements with the State of California (State Settlement), major California utilities (Utilities Settlement), and others that substantially resolved each of these issues with these parties.
     As a result of a December 19, 2006 Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision, certain contracts that WPC entered into during 2000 and 2001 may be subject to partial refunds. These contracts, under which WPC sold electricity, totaled approximately $89 million in revenue. While WPC is not a party to the cases involved in the appellate court decision, the buyer of electricity from WPC is a party to the cases and claims that WPC must refund to the buyer any loss it suffers due to the decision and the FERC's reconsideration of the contract terms at issue in the decision.
     Certain other issues also remain open at the FERC and for other nonsettling parties.
     
Refund proceedings
     Although we entered into the State Settlement and Utilities Settlement, which resolved the refund issues among the settling parties, we continue to have potential refund exposure to nonsettling parties, such as various California end users that did not participate in the Utilities Settlement. As a part of the Utilities Settlement, we funded escrow accounts that we anticipate will satisfy any ultimate refund determinations in favor of the nonsettling parties. We are also owed interest from counterparties in the California market during the refund period for which we have recorded a receivable totaling approximately $31 million at December 31, 2006. Collection of the interest is subject to the conclusion of this proceeding. Therefore, we continue to participate in the FERC refund case and related proceedings. Challenges to virtually every aspect of the refund proceeding, including the refund period, were made to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On August 2, 2006, the Ninth Circuit issued its order that largely upheld the FERC's prior rulings, but it expanded the types of transactions that were made subject to refund. Because of our settlement, we do not expect this decision will have a material impact on us. No final refund calculation, however, has been made, and certain aspects of the refund calculation process remain unclear and prevent that final refund calculation. As part of the State Settlement, an additional $45 million, previously accrued, remains to be paid to the California Attorney General (or his designee) over the next three years, with the final payment of $15 million due on January 1, 2010.
     
Reporting of Natural Gas-Related Information to Trade Publications
     We disclosed on October 25, 2002, that certain of our natural gas traders had reported inaccurate information to a trade publication that published gas price indices. In 2002, we received a subpoena from a federal grand jury in northern California seeking documents related to our involvement in California markets, including our reporting to trade publications for both gas and power transactions. We have completed our response to the subpoena. Three former traders with WPC have pled guilty to manipulation of gas prices through misreporting to an industry trade
 
periodical. One former trader has pled not guilty. On February 21, 2006, we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice (DOJ) that is intended to resolve this matter. The agreement obligated us to pay a total of $50 million, of which $20 million was paid in March 2006. The remaining $30 million has been paid in February 2007. Absent a breach, the agreement will expire 15 months from the date of execution of the agreement and no further action will be taken by the DOJ.
     Civil suits based on allegations of manipulating the gas indices have been brought against us and others, in each case seeking an unspecified amount of damages. We are currently a defendant in:
     Earlier this year, we settled a case for $9.15 million in Federal court in New York based on an allegation of manipulation of the NYMEX gas market. It is reasonably possible that additional amounts may be necessary to resolve the remaining outstanding litigation in this area, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
     
Mobile Bay Expansion
     In December 2002, an administrative law judge at the FERC issued an initial decision in Transco's 2001 general rate case which, among other things, rejected the recovery of the costs of Transco's Mobile Bay expansion project from its shippers on a "rolled-in" basis and found that incremental pricing for the Mobile Bay expansion project is just and reasonable. In March 2004, the FERC issued an Order on Initial Decision in which it reversed certain parts of the administrative law judge's decision and accepted Transco's proposal for rolled-in rates. Gas Marketing Services holds long-term transportation capacity on the Mobile Bay expansion project. If the FERC had adopted the decision of the administrative law judge on the pricing of the Mobile Bay expansion project and also required that the decision be implemented effective September 1, 2001, Gas Marketing Services could have been subject to surcharges of approximately $111 million, including interest, through December 31, 2006, in addition to increased costs going forward. Certain parties have filed appeals in federal court seeking to have the FERC's ruling on the rolled-in rates overturned.
     
Enron Bankruptcy
     We have outstanding claims against Enron Corp. and various of its subsidiaries (collectively "Enron") related to its bankruptcy filed in December 2001. In 2002, we sold $100 million of our claims against Enron to a third party for $24.5 million. In 2003, Enron filed objections to these claims. We have resolved Enron's objections, subject to court approval. Pursuant to the sales agreement, the purchaser of the claims has demanded repayment of the purchase price for the reduced portions of the claims. In January 2007, we entered into an agreement-in-principle with the purchaser to settle any potential repayment obligations.
 
     
Environmental Matters
     
Continuing operations
     Since 1989, our Transco subsidiary has had studies underway to test certain of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be necessary. Transco has responded to data requests from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. Transco has identified polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transco has also been involved in negotiations with the EPA and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, Transco commenced negotiations with certain environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The costs of any such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31, 2006, we had accrued liabilities of $6 million related to PCB contamination, potential mercury contamination, and other toxic and hazardous substances. Transco has been identified as a potentially responsible party at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. Based on present volumetric estimates and other factors, we have estimated our aggregate exposure for remediation of these sites to be less than $500,000, which is included in the environmental accrual discussed above.
     Beginning in the mid-1980's, our Northwest Pipeline subsidiary evaluated many of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation might be necessary. Consistent with other natural gas transmission companies, Northwest Pipeline identified PCB contamination in air compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Similarly, Northwest Pipeline identified hydrocarbon impacts at these facilities due to the former use of earthen pits and mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The PCBs were remediated pursuant to a Consent Decree with the EPA in the late 1980s and Northwest Pipeline conducted a voluntary clean-up of the hydrocarbon and mercury impacts in the early 1990s. In 2005, the Washington Department of Ecology required Northwest Pipeline to reevaluate its previous mercury clean-ups in Washington. Currently, Northwest Pipeline is assessing the actions needed for the sites to comply with Washington's current environmental standards. At December 31, 2006, we have accrued liabilities totaling approximately $5 million for these costs. We expect that these costs will be recoverable through Northwest Pipeline's rates.
     We also accrue environmental remediation costs for natural gas underground storage facilities, primarily related to soil and groundwater contamination. At December 31, 2006, we have accrued liabilities totaling approximately $7 million for these costs.
     In August 2005, our subsidiary, Williams Production RMT Company, voluntarily disclosed to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) two air permit violations. We have reached an agreement in principle with the CDPHE in which we agree to pay a $500,000 penalty and conduct a supplemental environmental project. A definitive agreement will be finalized soon.
     In March 2006, the CDPHE issued a notice of violation (NOV) to Williams Production RMT Company related to our operating permit for the Rulison oil separation and evaporation facility. On April 12, 2006, we met with the CDPHE to discuss the allegations contained in the NOV. In May 2006, we provided additional information to the agency regarding the emission estimates for operations from 1997 through 2003 and applied for updated permits.
     In July 2006, the CDPHE issued an NOV to Williams Production RMT Company related to operating permits for our Roan Cliffs and Hayburn Gas Plants in Garfield County, Colorado. In September 2006, we met with the CDPHE to discuss the allegations contained in the NOV, and in October 2006, we provided additional requested information to the agency.
     In August 2006, the CDPHE issued a NOV to Williams Production RMT Company related to our Grand Valley Oil Separation and Evaporation Facility located in Garfield County, Colorado in which the CDPHE alleged that we
 
failed to obtain a construction permit and to comply with certain provisions of our existing permit. In September, 2006, we met with the CDPHE, and in October 2006, we provided additional requested information to the agency.
     In July 2001, the EPA issued an information request asking for information on oil releases and discharges in any amount from our pipelines, pipeline systems, and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum products, during the period from July 1, 1998 through July 2, 2001. In November 2001, we furnished our response. In March 2004, the DOJ invited the new owner of Williams Energy Partners and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (Magellan) to enter into negotiations regarding alleged violations of the Clean Water Act. With the exception of four minor release events that underwent earlier cleanup operation under state enforcement actions, our environmental indemnification obligations to Magellan were released in a 2004 buyout. We do not expect further enforcement action with respect to the four release events or two 2006 spills at our Colorado and Wyoming facilities after providing additional requested information to the DOJ.
     
Former operations, including operations classified as discontinued
     In connection with the sale of certain assets and businesses, we have retained responsibility, through indemnification of the purchasers, for environmental and other liabilities existing at the time the sale was consummated, as described below.
     
Agrico
     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs resulting from certain conditions at specified locations to the extent such costs exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 2006, we have accrued liabilities of approximately $9 million for such excess costs.
     
Other
     At December 31, 2006, we have accrued environmental liabilities totaling approximately $25 million related primarily to our:
     These costs include certain conditions at specified locations related primarily to soil and groundwater contamination and any penalty assessed on Williams Refining & Marketing, L.L.C. (Williams Refining) associated with noncompliance with the EPA's National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP). In 2002, Williams Refining submitted a self-disclosure letter to the EPA indicating noncompliance with those regulations. This unintentional noncompliance had occurred due to a regulatory interpretation that resulted in under-counting the total annual benzene level at Williams Refining's Memphis refinery. Also in 2002, the EPA conducted an all- media audit of the Memphis refinery. In 2004, Williams Refining and the new owner of the Memphis refinery met with the EPA and the DOJ to discuss alleged violations and proposed penalties due to noncompliance issues identified in the report, including the benzene NESHAP issue. In July and August 2006, we finalized our agreements that resolved both the government's claims against us for alleged violations and an indemnity dispute with the purchaser in connection with our 2003 sale of the Memphis refinery. We have paid the required settlement amounts to the purchaser, and our payment to the government awaits the filing of the settlement with the court.
     In 2004, our Gulf Liquids subsidiary initiated a self-audit of all environmental conditions (air, water, waste) at three facilities: Geismar, Sorrento, and Chalmette, Louisiana. The audit revealed numerous infractions of Louisiana
 
environmental regulations and resulted in a Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ). No specific penalty amount was assessed. Instead, LDEQ was required by Louisiana law to demand a profit and loss statement to determine the financial benefit obtained by noncompliance and to assess a penalty accordingly. Gulf Liquids offered $91,500 as a single, final, global multi-media settlement. Subsequent negotiations have resulted in a revised offer of $109,000, which LDEQ is currently reviewing.
     Certain of our subsidiaries have been identified as potentially responsible parties at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
     
Summary of environmental matters
     Actual costs incurred for these matters could be substantially greater than amounts accrued depending on the actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and other factors, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
     
Other Legal Matters
     
Will Price (formerly Quinque)
     In 2001, fourteen of our entities were named as defendants in a nationwide class action lawsuit in Kansas state court that had been pending against other defendants, generally pipeline and gathering companies, since 2000. The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants have engaged in mismeasurement techniques that distort the heating content of natural gas, resulting in an alleged underpayment of royalties to the class of producer plaintiffs and sought an unspecified amount of damages. The fourth amended petition, which was filed in 2003, deleted all of our defendant entities except two Midstream subsidiaries. All remaining defendants have opposed class certification and a hearing on plaintiffs' second motion to certify the class was held on April 1, 2005. We are awaiting a decision from the court.
     
Grynberg
     In 1998, the DOJ informed us that Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims on behalf of himself and the federal government, in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against us and certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The claims sought an unspecified amount of royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. In connection with our sales of Kern River Gas Transmission in 2002 and Texas Gas Transmission Corporation in 2003, we agreed to indemnify the purchasers for any liability relating to this claim, including legal fees. The maximum amount of future payments that we could potentially be required to pay under these indemnifications depends upon the ultimate resolution of the claim and cannot currently be determined. Grynberg had also filed claims against approximately 300 other energy companies alleging that the defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement, royalty valuation and purchase of hydrocarbons. In 1999, the DOJ announced that it was declining to intervene in any of the Grynberg cases. Also in 1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of these cases, including those filed against us, to the federal court in Wyoming for pre-trial purposes. Grynberg's measurement claims remained pending against us and the other defendants; the court previously dismissed Grynberg's royalty valuation claims. In May 2005, the court-appointed special master entered a report which recommended that the claims against our Gas Pipeline and Midstream subsidiaries be dismissed but upheld the claims against our Exploration & Production subsidiaries against our jurisdictional challenge. In October 2006, the District Court dismissed all claims against us and our wholly owned subsidiaries, and in November 2006, Grynberg filed his notice of appeal with the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.
     On August 6, 2002, Jack J. Grynberg, and Celeste C. Grynberg, Trustee on Behalf of the Rachel Susan Grynberg Trust, and the Stephen Mark Grynberg Trust, served us and one of our Exploration & Production subsidiaries with a
 
complaint in the state court in Denver, Colorado. The complaint alleges that we have used mismeasurement techniques that distort the BTU heating content of natural gas, resulting in the alleged underpayment of royalties to Grynberg and other independent natural gas producers. The complaint also alleges that we inappropriately took deductions from the gross value of their natural gas and made other royalty valuation errors. Under various theories of relief, the plaintiff is seeking actual damages of between $2 million and $20 million based on interest rate variations and punitive damages in the amount of approximately $1.4 million. In 2004, Grynberg filed an amended complaint against one of our Exploration & Production subsidiaries. This subsidiary filed an answer in January 2005, denying liability for the damages claimed. Trial in this case was originally set for May 2006, but the parties have negotiated an agreement dismissing the measurement claims and deferring further proceedings on the royalty claims until resolution of an appeal in another case.
     
Securities class actions
     Numerous shareholder class action suits were filed against us in 2002 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The majority of the suits alleged that we and co-defendants, WilTel, previously an owned subsidiary known as Williams Communications, and certain corporate officers, acted jointly and separately to inflate the stock price of both companies. Other suits alleged similar causes of action related to a public offering in early January 2002 known as the FELINE PACS offering. These cases were also filed in 2002 against us, certain corporate officers, all members of our board of directors and all of the offerings' underwriters. WilTel was dismissed as a defendant as a result of its bankruptcy. These cases were consolidated and an order was issued requiring separate amended consolidated complaints by our equity holders and WilTel equity holders. The underwriter defendants have requested indemnification and defense from these cases. If we grant the requested indemnifications to the underwriters, any related settlement costs will not be covered by our insurance policies. We covered the cost of defending the underwriters. In 2002, the amended complaints of the WilTel securities holders and of our securities holders added numerous claims related to WPC. On June 13, 2006, we announced that we had reached an agreement-in-principle to settle the claims of our securities holders for a total payment of $290 million. On October 4, 2006, the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement. On November 3, 2006, we paid into escrow approximately $145 million in cash to fund the settlement, and the balance of the total settlement amount was funded by our insurers. On February 9, 2007, the court gave its final approval to the settlement. We entered into indemnity agreements with certain of our insurers to ensure their timely payment related to this settlement. The carrying value of our estimated liability related to these agreements is immaterial because we believe the likelihood of any future performance is remote.
     Litigation with the WilTel equity holders continues but the trial has been stayed pending decisions on various motions for summary judgment. Any obligation of ours to the WilTel equity holders as a result of a settlement or as a result of trial will not likely be covered by insurance, as our insurance coverage has been fully utilized by the settlement described above. The extent of the obligation is presently unknown and cannot be estimated, but it is reasonably possible that our exposure materially exceeds amounts accrued for this matter.
     Derivative shareholder suits have been filed in state court in Oklahoma all based on similar allegations. The state court approved motions to consolidate and to stay these Oklahoma suits pending action by the federal court in the shareholder suits. On December 23, 2006, our insurer paid $1.2 million on our behalf to reimburse the plaintiffs' attorneys fees and expenses which concluded the settlement of these suits. We previously implemented certain corporate governance and internal control enhancements that we agreed to under the court-approved settlement agreement.
     
Federal income tax litigation
     One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Transco Coal Gas Company, was engaged in a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding the recapture of certain income tax credits associated with the construction of a coal gasification plant in North Dakota by Great Plains Gasification Associates, in which Transco Coal Gas Company was a partner. This case has been resolved. (See Note 5.)
 
     
TAPS Quality Bank
     One of our subsidiaries, Williams Alaska Petroleum, Inc. (WAPI), is actively engaged in administrative litigation being conducted jointly by the FERC and the Regulatory Commission of Alaska (RCA) concerning the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality Bank. Primary issues being litigated include the appropriate valuation of the naphtha, heavy distillate, vacuum gas oil and residual product cuts within the TAPS Quality Bank as well as the appropriate retroactive effects of the determinations. Due to the sale of WAPI's interests on March 31, 2004, no future Quality Bank liability will accrue but we are responsible for any liability that existed as of that date including potential liability for any retroactive payments that might be awarded in these proceedings for the period prior to March 31, 2004. In the third quarter of 2004, the FERC and RCA presiding administrative law judges rendered their joint and individual initial decisions. The initial decisions set forth methodologies for determining the valuations of the product cuts under review and also approved the retroactive application of the approved methodologies for the heavy distillate and residual product cuts. In third-quarter 2004, we accrued approximately $134 million based on our computation and assessment of ultimate ruling terms that were considered probable.
     The FERC and the RCA completed their reviews of the initial decisions and in 2005 issued substantially similar orders generally affirming the initial decisions. On June 1, 2006, the FERC, after two sets of rehearing requests, entered its final order (FERC Final Order). During this administrative rehearing process all other appeals of the initial decisions were stayed including ExxonMobil's appeal to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals asserting that the FERC's reliance on the Highway Reauthorization Act as the basis for limiting the retroactive effect violates, among other things, the separation of powers under the U.S. Constitution by interfering with the FERC's independent decision-making role. ExxonMobil filed a similar appeal in the Alaska Superior Court. We also appealed the FERC's order to the extent of its ruling on the West Coast Heavy Distillate component.
     The Quality Bank Administrator issued his interpretations of the payment obligations under the FERC Final Order, and we and others filed exceptions to these instructions with the FERC. We expect the FERC's ruling on these payment instruction exceptions later in the first quarter of 2007. Once the FERC rules, the Administrator will invoice us for amounts due, and we will be required to pay the invoiced amounts, subject to the outcome of the appeals of the FERC Final Order. We estimate that our net obligation could be as much as $116 million. Amounts accrued in excess of this estimated obligation will be retained pending resolution of all appeals.
     
Redondo Beach taxes
     On February 5, 2005, WPC received a tax assessment letter, addressed to AES Redondo Beach, L.L.C. and WPC, from the city of Redondo Beach, California, in which the city asserted that approximately $33 million in back taxes and approximately $39 million in interest and penalties are owed related to natural gas used at the generating facility operated by AES Redondo Beach. Hearings were held in July 2005 and in September 2005 the tax administrator for the city issued a decision in which he found WPC jointly and severally liable with AES Redondo Beach for back taxes of approximately $36 million and interest and penalties of approximately $21 million. Both we and AES Redondo Beach filed notices of appeal that were heard at the city level. On December 13, 2006, the city hearing officer for the appeal of the pre-2005 amounts issued a final decision affirming our utility user tax liability and reversing AES Redondo's liability because the officer ruled that AES Redondo is an exempt public utility. Even though we appealed this decision to the Los Angeles Superior Court, we may be required to pay the full amount of any final assessment prior to the resolution of this state court appeal. Despite the city hearing officer's unfavorable decision and the potential payment to preserve our appeal rights, we do not believe a contingent loss is probable.
     The City's current assessment of our liability (for the periods from 1998 through September 2006) is approximately $69 million (inclusive of interest and penalties). We have protested all these assessments and requested hearings on them. We and AES Redondo have also filed separate refund actions in Los Angeles Superior Court related to certain taxes paid since the initial 2005 notice of assessment. We believe that under our tolling agreement related to the Redondo Beach generating facility, AES Redondo Beach is responsible for taxes of the nature asserted by the city; however, AES Redondo Beach has notified us that it does not agree.
 
     
Gulf Liquids litigation
     Gulf Liquids contracted with Gulsby Engineering Inc. (Gulsby) and Gulsby-Bay for the construction of certain gas processing plants in Louisiana. National American Insurance Company (NAICO) and American Home Assurance Company provided payment and performance bonds for the projects. Gulsby and Gulsby-Bay defaulted on the construction contracts. In the fall of 2001, the contractors, sureties, and Gulf Liquids filed multiple cases in Louisiana and Texas. In January 2002, NAICO added Gulf Liquids' co-venturer WPC to the suits as a third-party defendant. Gulf Liquids asserted claims against the contractors and sureties for, among other things, breach of contract requesting contractual and consequential damages from $40 million to $80 million, any of which is subject to a sharing arrangement with XL Insurance Company.
     At the conclusion of the consolidated trial of the asserted contract and tort claims, the jury returned its actual damages verdict against WPC and Gulf Liquids on July 31, 2006 and its related punitive damages verdict on August 1, 2006. The court is not expected to enter any judgment until the second or third quarter of 2007. Based on our interpretation of the jury verdicts, we have estimated exposure for actual damages of approximately $68 million plus potential interest of approximately $22 million, all of which have been accrued as of December 31, 2006. In addition, it is reasonably possible that any ultimate judgment may include additional amounts of approximately $199 million in excess of our accrual, which primarily represents our estimate of potential punitive damage exposure under Texas law.
     
Hurricane lawsuits
     We were named as a defendant in two class action petitions for damages filed in federal court in Louisiana in September and October 2005 arising from hurricanes that struck Louisiana in 2005. The class action plaintiffs, purporting to represent persons, businesses and entities in the State of Louisiana who have suffered damage as a result of the winds and storm surge from the hurricanes, allege that the operating activities of the two sub-classes of defendants, which are all oil and gas pipelines (including Transco) that dredged pipeline canals or installed pipelines in the marshes of south Louisiana and all oil and gas exploration and production companies which drilled for oil and gas or dredged canals in the marshes of south Louisiana, have altered marshland ecology and caused marshland destruction which otherwise would have averted all or almost all of the destruction and loss of life caused by the hurricanes. Plaintiffs requested that the court allow the lawsuits to proceed as class actions and sought legal and equitable relief in an unspecified amount. In September 2006, the court granted our and the other defendants' joint motion to dismiss the class action petitions on various grounds. In August 2006, an additional class action case containing substantially identical allegations was filed against the same defendants, including Transco. This case was dismissed on November 30, 2006.
     
Wyoming severance taxes
     The Wyoming Department of Audit (DOA) audited the severance tax reporting for our subsidiary Williams Production RMT Company for the production years 2000 through 2002. In August 2006, the DOA assessed additional severance tax and interest for those periods of approximately $3 million. In addition, the DOA notified us of an increase in the taxable value of our interests for ad valorem tax purposes, which is estimated to result in additional taxes of approximately $2 million, including interest. We dispute the DOA's interpretation of the statutory obligation and have appealed this assessment to the Wyoming State Board of Equalization. If the DOA prevails in its interpretation of our obligation and applies the same basis of assessment to subsequent periods, it is reasonably possible that we could owe a total of approximately $21 million to $23 million in taxes and interest from January 1, 2003, through December 31, 2006.
     
Royalty litigation
     In September 2006, royalty interest owners in Garfield County, Colorado, filed a class action suit in Colorado state court alleging that we improperly calculated oil and gas royalty payments, failed to account for the proceeds that we received from the sale of gas and extracted products, improperly charged certain expenses, and failed to
 
refund amounts withheld in excess of ad valorem tax obligations. The plaintiffs claim that the class might be in excess of 500 individuals and seek an accounting and damages. The parties have agreed to stay this action in order to participate in a mediation to be scheduled.
     
Other Divestiture Indemnifications
     Pursuant to various purchase and sale agreements relating to divested businesses and assets, we have indemnified certain purchasers against liabilities that they may incur with respect to the businesses and assets acquired from us. The indemnities provided to the purchasers are customary in sale transactions and are contingent upon the purchasers incurring liabilities that are not otherwise recoverable from third parties. The indemnities generally relate to breach of warranties, tax, historic litigation, personal injury, environmental matters, right of way and other representations that we have provided.
     We sold a natural gas liquids pipeline system in 2002, and in July 2006, the purchaser of that system filed its complaint against us and our subsidiaries in state court in Houston, Texas. The purchaser alleges that we breached certain warranties under the purchase and sale agreement and seeks an unspecified amount of damages and our specific performance under certain guarantees. On September 1, 2006, we filed our answer to the purchaser's complaint denying all liability. We anticipate that the trial will occur in the fourth quarter 2007, and our prior suit filed against the purchaser in Delaware state court has been stayed pending resolution of the Texas case.
     At December 31, 2006, we do not expect any of the indemnities provided pursuant to the sales agreements to have a material impact on our future financial position. However, if a claim for indemnity is brought against us in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which the claim is made.
     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against us which are incidental to our operations.
     
Summary
     Litigation, arbitration, regulatory matters, and environmental matters are subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the ruling occurs. Management, including internal counsel, currently believes that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will not have a materially adverse effect upon our future financial position.
     
Commitments
     WPC has entered into certain contracts giving it the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other services associated with electric generation facilities that are currently in operation throughout the continental United States. At December 31, 2006, WPC's estimated committed payments under these contracts range from approximately $406 million to $424 million annually through 2017 and decline over the remaining five years to $59 million in 2022. Total committed payments under these contracts over the next sixteen years are approximately $5.5 billion. Included in the $5.5 billion is a $1.9 billion contract that is accounted for as an operating lease. (See Leases-Lessee in Note 11.) Total payments made under these contracts during 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $409 million, $403 million, and $402 million, respectively. These contracts are included in the pending sale of our power business to Bear Energy, LP. (See Note 2.)
     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $406 million at December 31, 2006.
 
Note 16. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
     The table below presents changes in the components of
accumulated other comprehensive loss.
 
     
Available-for-Sale Securities
     During 2004, we received proceeds totaling $851.4 million from the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities. We realized losses of $5.5 million from these transactions.
Note 17. Segment Disclosures
     On May 21, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP. This pending sale has impacted our segment presentation. See Notes 1 and 2 for further discussion.
     Our reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. The segments are managed separately because each segment requires different technology, marketing strategies and industry knowledge. Our master limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P., is consolidated within our Midstream segment. (See Note 1.) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and our Milagro natural gas-fired electric generating plant. (See Note 2.)
 
     
Performance Measurement
     We currently evaluate performance based on from operations, which includes from external and internal customers, and including impairments related to investments accounted for under the equity method. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Intersegment sales are generally accounted for at current market prices as if the sales were to unaffiliated third parties.
segment profit (loss)
segment revenues
segment costs and expenses, depreciation, depletion and amortization, equity earnings (losses)
loss from investments
     The majority of energy commodity hedging by certain of our business units is done through intercompany derivatives with our Gas Marketing Services segment which, in turn, entered into offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Gas Marketing Services bears the counterparty performance risks associated with the unrelated third parties.
     The Gas Marketing Services segment includes the continued marketing and risk management operations that support our natural gas businesses. The operations include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production and procuring fuel and shrink gas for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing Services manages various natural gas-related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges.
     External revenues of our Exploration & Production segment includes third-party oil and gas sales, which are more than offset by transportation expenses and royalties due third parties on intersegment sales.
     The following geographic area data includes based on product shipment origin and based upon physical location.
revenues from external customers
long-lived assets
     Our foreign operations are primarily located in Venezuela, Canada, and Argentina. are comprised of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.
Long-lived assets
 
     The following table reflects the reconciliation of and to and as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income and related to
segment revenues
segment profit (loss)
revenues
operating income (loss)
other financial information
long-lived assets.
 
     The following table reflects and by reporting segment.
total assets
equity method investments
 
 
     Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows (millions, except per-share amounts).
     
The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common shares outstanding and rounding.
     for fourth quarter 2006 includes a $40 million reduction to the tax provision associated with a favorable U.S. Tax Court ruling, a $7.4 million increase to the tax provision associated with an adjustment to deferred income taxes (see Note 5) and the following pre-tax items:
Net income (loss)
     for third quarter 2006 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income (loss)
 
     for second quarter 2006 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income (loss)
     for the first quarter 2006 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income (loss)
     for fourth quarter 2005 includes a $20.2 million reduction to the tax provision associated with an adjustment to deferred income taxes (see Note 5) and the following pre-tax items:
Net income
     for third quarter 2005 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income
     for second quarter 2005 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income
 
     for first quarter 2005 includes the following pre-tax items:
Net income
 
     The following information pertains to our oil and gas producing activities and is presented in accordance with SFAS No. 69, "Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities." The information is required to be disclosed by geographic region. We have significant oil and gas producing activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-continent areas of the United States. Additionally, we have international oil and gas producing activities, primarily in Argentina. However, proved reserves and revenues related to international activities are approximately 4.2 percent and 4.3 percent, respectively, of our total international and domestic proved reserves and revenues. The following information relates only to the oil and gas activities in the United States.
Capitalized Costs
Costs Incurred
 
Results of Operations
 
Proved Reserves
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
     The following is based on the estimated quantities of proved reserves and the year-end prices and costs. The average year end natural gas prices used in the following estimates were $4.81, $6.95, and $5.08 per MMcfe at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Future income tax expenses have been computed considering available carry forwards and credits and the appropriate statutory tax rates. The discount rate of 10 percent is as prescribed by SFAS No. 69. Continuation of year-end economic conditions also is assumed. The calculation is based on estimates of proved reserves, which are revised over time as new data becomes available. Probable or possible reserves, which may become proved in the future, are not considered. The calculation also requires assumptions as to the timing of future production of proved reserves, and the timing and amount of future development and production costs. Of the $3,070 million of future development costs, $1,041 million, $942 million and $540 million are estimated to be spent in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.
     Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating volumes and the value of proved reserves and in projecting future production rates and timing of development expenditures. Such reserve estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production may be substantially different from the reserve estimates.
 
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
Sources of Change in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

 
Exhibit 99.2
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
Note 1. General
 
     Our accompanying interim consolidated financial statements do not include all the notes in our annual financial statements and, therefore, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The accompanying unaudited financial statements include all normal recurring adjustments that, in the opinion of our management, are necessary to present fairly our financial position at March 31, 2007, and results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Note 2. Basis of Presentation
 
     In accordance with the provisions related to discontinued operations within Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes reflect the results of operations and financial position of our power business as discontinued operations. (See Note 3.) These operations, which were part of our previously reported Power segment, include:
     We have recast all segment information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect the discontinued operations noted above. This also reflects the creation of a new Gas Marketing Services segment, which includes certain continued marketing and risk management operations that support our natural gas businesses. These operations were part of our previously reported Power segment but will now be managed and reported as a separate segment.
     Unless indicated otherwise, the information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements relates to our continuing operations.
     Cash flows are presented without separate disclosure of discontinued operations. Amounts reported have been revised with no material impact. This revision did not change the total reported net cash provided or used by operating, financing, or investing activities.
     We currently own approximately 22.5 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us. Williams Partners L.P. is consolidated within our Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream) segment in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights."
 
Notes (Continued)
Note 3. Discontinued Operations
 
     On May 21, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. Under the agreement, this amount will be reduced by expected net portfolio cash flows from an April 1, 2007, valuation date through the transaction closing date. Mark-to-market gains and losses between this valuation date and the close of the transaction will not impact the economic value of the sale, although they may change the recorded gain or loss on the sale as derivative assets and liabilities included in the transaction continue to be valued at fair value. We expect the sale to close in 2007.
     In addition, we expect to sell certain remaining power assets. We have retained the exposure related to certain contingent liabilities associated with our power business. (See Note 9.) The following table outlines the impact to our previously reported Power segment.
Summarized results of discontinued operations
     The following table presents the summarized results of discontinued operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Notes (Continued)
Summarized assets and liabilities of discontinued operations
     The following table presents the summarized assets and liabilities of discontinued operations as of March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006.
Note 4. Provision for Income Taxes
 
     The includes:
provision for income taxes
     The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2007, is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of state income taxes and net foreign operations.
 
Notes (Continued)
     The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2006, is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of state income taxes.
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48). The Interpretation prescribes guidance for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. To recognize a tax position, the enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis, that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
     FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The cumulative effect of applying the Interpretation must be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. We adopted FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007, as required. The net impact of the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 was approximately a $16.8 million decrease in retained earnings.
     As of January 1, 2007, we had approximately $93 million of unrecognized tax benefits. If recognized, approximately $83 million, net of federal tax expense, would be recorded as a reduction of income tax expense. There have been no significant changes to these amounts during the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
     We recognize related interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. Approximately $97 million of interest and $5 million of penalties have been accrued at January 1, 2007. Of the $97 million interest accrued, approximately $22 million relates to uncertain tax positions.
     As of January 1, 2007, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination of Williams' consolidated U.S. income tax return for 2002 was in process. During the first quarter of 2007, the IRS also commenced examination of the 2003 through 2005 consolidated U.S. income tax returns. IRS examinations for 1996 through 2001 have been completed but the years remain open while certain issues are under review with the Appeals Division of the IRS. The statute of limitations for most states expire one year after IRS audit settlement.
     Generally, tax returns for our Venezuelan and Canadian entities are open to audit from 2002 through 2006. Certain Canadian entities are currently under examination.
Note 5. Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations
 
     Basic and diluted earnings per common share are computed as follows:
 
 
Notes (Continued)
     The table below includes information related to stock options that were outstanding at March 31 of each respective year but have been excluded from the computation of weighted-average stock options due to the option exercise price exceeding the first quarter weighted-average market price of our common shares.
     In the first quarter of 2006, an additional 3.2 million options with exercise prices less than the first quarter weighted-average market price were excluded from the computation of weighted-average stock options due to the shares being antidilutive.
Note 6. Employee Benefit Plans
 
     and for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows. We do not expect that the sale of our power business will have a significant impact on our employee benefit plans. (See Note 3.)
Net periodic pension expense
other postretirement benefit expense
     During the first quarter of 2007, we have contributed $10.2 million to our pension plans and $3.5 million to our other postretirement benefit plans. We presently anticipate making additional contributions of approximately $31 million to our pension plans in 2007 for a total of approximately $41 million. We presently anticipate making additional contributions of approximately $12 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2007 for a total of approximately $16 million.
Note 7. Inventories
 
     at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 are as follows:
Inventories
 
Notes (Continued)
Note 8. Debt and Banking Arrangements
 
Long-Term Debt
     
Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities (credit facilities)
     At March 31, 2007, no loans are outstanding under our credit facilities. Letters of credit issued under our credit facilities are:
     
Exploration & Production's credit agreement
     In February 2007, Exploration & Production entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Under the credit agreement, Exploration & Production is not required to post collateral as long as the value of its domestic natural gas reserves, as determined under the provisions of the agreement, exceeds by a specified amount certain of its obligations including any outstanding debt and the aggregate out-of-the-money positions on hedges entered into under the credit agreement. Exploration & Production is subject to additional covenants under the credit agreement including restrictions on hedge limits, the creation of liens, the incurrence of debt, the sale of assets and properties, and making certain payments, such as dividends, under certain circumstances.
     
Issuances and retirements
     On April 4, 2007, Northwest Pipeline retired $175 million of 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due 2010. Northwest Pipeline paid premiums of approximately $7.1 million in conjunction with the early debt retirement.
     On April 5, 2007, Northwest Pipeline issued $185 million aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement.
     
Registration payment arrangements
     Under the terms of the Northwest Pipeline $185 million 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes mentioned above, Northwest Pipeline is obligated to file a registration statement for an offer to exchange the notes for a new issue of substantially identical notes issued under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, within 180 days from closing and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective within 270 days after closing. Northwest Pipeline may be required to provide a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the notes under certain circumstances. Northwest Pipeline may also be required to pay additional interest, up to a maximum of 0.5 percent annually, if it fails to satisfy these obligations.
     On June 20, 2006, Williams Partners L.P. issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes in a private debt placement. On December 13, 2006, Williams Partners L.P. issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes in a private debt placement. In connection with these issuances, Williams Partners L.P. entered into registration rights agreements with the initial purchasers of the senior unsecured notes. In these agreements they agreed to conduct a registered exchange offer for the senior unsecured notes or cause to become effective a shelf registration statement providing for resale of the senior unsecured notes. If Williams Partners L.P. fails to initiate the exchange offers by May 30, 2007, they will be required to pay additional interest, up to a maximum of 0.5 percent annually. Williams Partners L.P. initiated exchange offers for both series on April 10, 2007.
     On December 13, 2006, Williams Partners L.P. issued approximately $350 million of common and Class B units in a private equity offering. In connection with these issuances, Williams Partners L.P. entered into a registration
 
Notes (Continued)
rights agreement with the initial purchasers whereby Williams Partners L.P. agreed to file a shelf registration statement providing for the resale of the units. Additionally, the registration rights agreement provides for the registration of common units that would be issued upon conversion of the Class B units. If the shelf is unavailable for a period that exceeds an aggregate of 30 days in any 90-day period or 105 days in any 365-day period, the purchasers are entitled to receive liquidated damages. Liquidated damages are calculated as 0.25% of the Liquidated Damages Multiplier per 30-day period for the first 60 days following the 90th day, increasing by an additional 0.25% of the Liquidated Damages Multiplier per 30-day period for each subsequent 60 days, up to a maximum of 1.00% of the Liquidated Damages Multiplier per 30-day period. The Liquidated Damages Multiplier is (i) the product of $36.59 times the number of common units purchased that have not yet been resold pursuant to the registration statement plus (ii) the product of $35.81 times the number of Class B Units purchased.
     As of March 31, 2007, we have not accrued any liabilities for these registration payment arrangements.
Note 9. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
 
Rate and Regulatory Matters and Related Litigation
     Our interstate pipeline subsidiaries have various regulatory proceedings pending. As a result, a portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been collected subject to refund. We have accrued a liability for these potential refunds as of March 31, 2007, which we believe is adequate for any refunds that may be required.
Issues Resulting from California Energy Crisis
     Our subsidiary, Williams Power Company, Inc. (WPC), whose results of operations were included in our previously reported Power segment (see Note 3), is engaged in power marketing in various geographic areas, including California. Prices charged for power by us and other traders and generators in California and other western states in 2000 and 2001 were challenged in various proceedings, including those before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). These challenges included refund proceedings, summer 2002 90-day contracts, investigations of alleged market manipulation including withholding, gas indices and other gaming of the market, new long-term power sales to the State of California that were subsequently challenged and civil litigation relating to certain of these issues. We have entered into settlements with the State of California (State Settlement), major California utilities (Utilities Settlement), and others that substantially resolved each of these issues with these parties.
     As a result of a December 19, 2006, Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision, certain contracts that WPC entered into during 2000 and 2001 may be subject to partial refunds. These contracts, under which WPC sold electricity, totaled approximately $89 million in revenue. While WPC is not a party to the cases involved in the appellate court decision, the buyer of electricity from WPC is a party to the cases and claims that WPC must refund to the buyer any loss it suffers due to the decision and the FERC's reconsideration of the contract terms at issue in the decision.
     Certain other issues also remain open at the FERC and for other nonsettling parties.
     
Refund proceedings
     Although we entered into the State Settlement and Utilities Settlement, which resolved the refund issues among the settling parties, we continue to have potential refund exposure to nonsettling parties, such as various California end users that did not participate in the Utilities Settlement. As a part of the Utilities Settlement, we funded escrow accounts that we anticipate will satisfy any ultimate refund determinations in favor of the nonsettling parties. We are also owed interest from counterparties in the California market during the refund period for which we have recorded a receivable totaling approximately $21 million at March 31, 2007. Collection of the interest is subject to the conclusion of this proceeding. Therefore, we continue to participate in the FERC refund case and related proceedings. Challenges to virtually every aspect of the refund proceedings, including the refund period, were made to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On August 2, 2006, the Ninth Circuit issued its order that largely upheld the FERC's prior rulings, but it expanded the types of transactions that were made subject to refund. Because of our settlement, we do not expect this decision will have a material impact on us. No final refund calculation, however, has been made, and certain aspects of the refund calculation process remain unclear and prevent that final refund calculation. As part of the State Settlement, an additional $45 million, previously accrued, remains to be paid to the
 
Notes (Continued)
California Attorney General (or his designee) over the next three years, with final payment of $15 million due on January 1, 2010.
Reporting of Natural Gas-Related Information to Trade Publications
     We disclosed on October 25, 2002, that certain of our natural gas traders had reported inaccurate information to a trade publication that published gas price indices. In 2002, we received a subpoena from a federal grand jury in northern California seeking documents related to our involvement in California markets, including our reporting to trade publications for both gas and power transactions. We have completed our response to the subpoena. Three former traders with WPC have pled guilty to manipulation of gas prices through misreporting to an industry trade periodical. One former trader has pled not guilty. On February 21, 2006, we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice (DOJ) that is intended to resolve this matter. The agreement obligated us to pay a total of $50 million, of which $20 million was paid in March 2006. The remaining $30 million was paid in February 2007. Absent a breach, the agreement will expire 15 months from the date of execution of the agreement and no further action will be taken by the DOJ.
     Civil suits based on allegations of manipulating the gas indices have been brought against us and others, in each case seeking an unspecified amount of damages. We are currently a defendant in:
     It is reasonably possible that additional amounts may be necessary to resolve the remaining outstanding litigation in this area, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Mobile Bay Expansion
     In December 2002, an administrative law judge at the FERC issued an initial decision in Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation's (Transco) 2001 general rate case which, among other things, rejected the recovery of the costs of Transco's Mobile Bay expansion project from its shippers on a "rolled-in" basis and found that incremental pricing for the Mobile Bay expansion project is just and reasonable. In March 2004, the FERC issued an Order on Initial Decision in which it reversed certain parts of the administrative law judge's decision and accepted Transco's proposal for rolled-in rates. Gas Marketing Services holds long-term transportation capacity on the Mobile Bay expansion project. If the FERC had adopted the decision of the administrative law judge on the pricing of the Mobile Bay expansion project and also required that the decision be implemented effective September 1, 2001, Gas Marketing Services could have been subject to surcharges of approximately $117 million, including interest, through March 31, 2007, in addition to increased costs going forward. Certain parties have filed appeals in federal court seeking to have the FERC's ruling on the rolled-in rates overturned.
Enron Bankruptcy
     We have outstanding claims against Enron Corp. and various of its subsidiaries (collectively "Enron") related to its bankruptcy filed in December 2001. In 2002, we sold $100 million of our claims against Enron to a third party for $24.5 million. In 2003, Enron filed objections to these claims. We have resolved Enron's objections, subject to court approval. Pursuant to the sales agreement, the purchaser of the claims demanded repayment of the purchase price for the reduced portions of the claims. In February 2007, we completed a settlement with the purchaser covering any potential repayment obligations.
 
Notes (Continued)
Environmental Matters
     
Continuing operations
     Since 1989, our Transco subsidiary has had studies underway to test certain of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be necessary. Transco has responded to data requests from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. Transco has identified polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transco has also been involved in negotiations with the EPA and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, Transco commenced negotiations with certain environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The costs of any such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At March 31, 2007, we had accrued liabilities of $6 million related to PCB contamination, potential mercury contamination, and other toxic and hazardous substances. Transco has been identified as a potentially responsible party at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. Based on present volumetric estimates and other factors, we have estimated our aggregate exposure for remediation of these sites to be less than $500,000, which is included in the environmental accrual discussed above.
     Beginning in the mid-1980's, our Northwest Pipeline subsidiary evaluated many of its facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation might be necessary. Consistent with other natural gas transmission companies, Northwest Pipeline identified PCB contamination in air compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Similarly, Northwest Pipeline identified hydrocarbon impacts at these facilities due to the former use of earthen pits and mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. The PCBs were remediated pursuant to a Consent Decree with the EPA in the late 1980s and Northwest Pipeline conducted a voluntary clean-up of the hydrocarbon and mercury impacts in the early 1990s. In 2005, the Washington Department of Ecology required Northwest Pipeline to reevaluate its previous mercury clean-ups in Washington. Currently, Northwest Pipeline is assessing the actions needed for the sites to comply with Washington's current environmental standards. At March 31, 2007, we have accrued liabilities totaling approximately $5 million for these costs. We expect that these costs will be recoverable through Northwest Pipeline's rates.
     We also accrue environmental remediation costs for natural gas underground storage facilities, primarily related to soil and groundwater contamination. At March 31, 2007, we have accrued liabilities totaling approximately $7 million for these costs.
     In August 2005, our subsidiary, Williams Production RMT Company, voluntarily disclosed to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) two air permit violations. We have reached an agreement-in-principle with the CDPHE in which we agreed to pay a $180,000 penalty and to conduct a supplemental environmental project to upgrade our equipment. We expect that a definitive agreement will be finalized soon.
     In March 2006, the CDPHE issued a notice of violation (NOV) to Williams Production RMT Company related to our operating permit for the Rulison oil separation and evaporation facility. On April 12, 2006, we met with the CDPHE to discuss the allegations contained in the NOV. In May 2006, we provided additional information to the agency regarding the emission estimates for operations from 1997 through 2003 and applied for updated permits.
     In July 2006, the CDPHE issued an NOV to Williams Production RMT Company related to operating permits for our Roan Cliffs and Hayburn Gas Plants in Garfield County, Colorado. In September 2006, we met with the CDPHE to discuss the allegations contained in the NOV, and in October 2006, we provided additional requested information to the agency.
     In August 2006, the CDPHE issued a NOV to Williams Production RMT Company related to our Grand Valley Oil Separation and Evaporation Facility located in Garfield County, Colorado in which the CDPHE alleged that we failed to obtain a construction permit and to comply with certain provisions of our existing permit. In September 2006, we met with the CDPHE, and in October 2006, we provided additional requested information to the agency.
 
Notes (Continued)
     On April 11, 2007, the New Mexico Environment Department's Air Quality Bureau (NMED) issued a NOV to Williams Four Corners, LLC that alleges various emission and reporting violations in connection with our Lybrook gas processing plant's flare and leak detection and repair program. We are investigating the matter.
     On April 16, 2007, the CDPHE issued a NOV to Williams Production RMT Company related to alleged air permit violations at the Rifle Station natural gas dehydration facility located in Garfield County, Colorado. We are investigating the matter.
     On April 27, 2007, the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality issued a NOV to Williams Production RMT Company that alleges recurring violations of various Wyoming Pollution Discharge Elimination System permits in connection with our coal bed methane gas production facilities in the state. We have begun our investigation of the matter.
     In July 2001, the EPA issued an information request asking for information on oil releases and discharges in any amount from our pipelines, pipeline systems, and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum products, during the period from July 1, 1998 through July 2, 2001. In November 2001, we furnished our response. In March 2004, the DOJ invited the new owner of Williams Energy Partners and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (Magellan) to enter into negotiations regarding alleged violations of the Clean Water Act. With the exception of four minor release events that underwent earlier cleanup operation under state enforcement actions, our environmental indemnification obligations to Magellan were released in a 2004 buyout. We do not expect further enforcement action with respect to the four release events or two 2006 spills at our Colorado and Wyoming facilities after providing additional requested information to the DOJ.
     
Former operations, including operations classified as discontinued
     In connection with the sale of certain assets and businesses, we have retained responsibility, through indemnification of the purchasers, for environmental and other liabilities existing at the time the sale was consummated, as described below.
     
Agrico
     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs resulting from certain conditions at specified locations to the extent such costs exceed a specified amount. At March 31, 2007, we have accrued liabilities of approximately $9 million for such excess costs.
     
Other
     At March 31, 2007, we have accrued environmental liabilities totaling approximately $24 million related primarily to our:
     These costs include certain conditions at specified locations related primarily to soil and groundwater contamination and any penalty assessed on Williams Refining & Marketing, L.L.C. (Williams Refining) associated with noncompliance with the EPA's National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP). In 2002, Williams Refining submitted a self-disclosure letter to the EPA indicating noncompliance with those regulations. This unintentional noncompliance had occurred due to a regulatory interpretation that resulted in under-counting the total annual benzene level at Williams Refining's Memphis refinery. Also in 2002, the EPA conducted an all-media audit of the Memphis refinery. In 2004, Williams Refining and the new owner of the Memphis refinery met with the
 
Notes (Continued)
EPA and the DOJ to discuss alleged violations and proposed penalties due to noncompliance issues identified in the report, including the benzene NESHAP issue. In July and August 2006, we finalized our agreements that resolved both the government's claims against us for alleged violations and an indemnity dispute with the purchaser in connection with our 2003 sale of the Memphis refinery. We have paid the required settlement amounts to the purchaser, and our payment to the government awaits the court's approval of the settlement.
     In 2004, our Gulf Liquids subsidiary initiated a self-audit of all environmental conditions (air, water, waste) at three facilities: Geismar, Sorrento, and Chalmette, Louisiana. The audit revealed numerous infractions of Louisiana environmental regulations and resulted in a Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ). No specific penalty amount was assessed. Instead, LDEQ was required by Louisiana law to demand a profit and loss statement to determine the financial benefit obtained by noncompliance and to assess a penalty accordingly. Gulf Liquids offered $91,500 as a single, final, global multi-media settlement. Subsequent negotiations have resulted in a revised offer of $109,000, which LDEQ is currently reviewing.
     Certain of our subsidiaries have been identified as potentially responsible parties at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
     
Summary of environmental matters
     Actual costs incurred for these matters could be substantially greater than amounts accrued depending on the actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and other factors, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Other Legal Matters
     
Will Price (formerly Quinque)
     In 2001, fourteen of our entities were named as defendants in a nationwide class action lawsuit in Kansas state court that had been pending against other defendants, generally pipeline and gathering companies, since 2000. The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants have engaged in mismeasurement techniques that distort the heating content of natural gas, resulting in an alleged underpayment of royalties to the class of producer plaintiffs and sought an unspecified amount of damages. The fourth amended petition, which was filed in 2003, deleted all of our defendant entities except two Midstream subsidiaries. All remaining defendants have opposed class certification and a hearing on plaintiffs' second motion to certify the class was held in April 2005. We are awaiting a decision from the court.
     
Grynberg
     In 1998, the DOJ informed us that Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims on behalf of himself and the federal government, in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against us and certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The claims sought an unspecified amount of royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. In connection with our sales of Kern River Gas Transmission in 2002 and Texas Gas Transmission Corporation in 2003, we agreed to indemnify the purchasers for any liability relating to this claim, including legal fees. The maximum amount of future payments that we could potentially be required to pay under these indemnifications depends upon the ultimate resolution of the claim and cannot currently be determined. Grynberg had also filed claims against approximately 300 other energy companies alleging that the defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement, royalty valuation and purchase of hydrocarbons. In 1999, the DOJ announced that it would not intervene in any of the Grynberg cases. Also in 1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of these cases, including those filed against us, to the federal court in Wyoming for pre-trial purposes. Grynberg's measurement claims remained pending against us and the other defendants; the court previously dismissed Grynberg's royalty valuation claims. In May 2005, the court-appointed special master entered a report which recommended that the claims against our Gas Pipeline and Midstream subsidiaries be dismissed but upheld the claims against our Exploration & Production subsidiaries against our jurisdictional challenge. In October 2006,
 
Notes (Continued)
the District Court dismissed all claims against us and our wholly owned subsidiaries, and in November 2006, Grynberg filed his notice of appeal with the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.
     On August 6, 2002, Jack J. Grynberg, and Celeste C. Grynberg, Trustee on Behalf of the Rachel Susan Grynberg Trust, and the Stephen Mark Grynberg Trust, served us and one of our Exploration & Production subsidiaries with a complaint in the state court in Denver, Colorado. The complaint alleges that we have used mismeasurement techniques that distort the BTU heating content of natural gas, resulting in the alleged underpayment of royalties to Grynberg and other independent natural gas producers. The complaint also alleges that we inappropriately took deductions from the gross value of their natural gas and made other royalty valuation errors. Under various theories of relief, the plaintiff is seeking actual damages of between $2 million and $20 million based on interest rate variations and punitive damages in the amount of approximately $1.4 million. In 2004, Grynberg filed an amended complaint against one of our Exploration & Production subsidiaries. This subsidiary filed an answer in January 2005, denying liability for the damages claimed. Trial in this case was originally set for May 2006, but the parties have negotiated an agreement dismissing the measurement claims and deferring further proceedings on the royalty claims until resolution of an appeal in another case.
     
Securities class actions
     Numerous shareholder class action suits were filed against us in 2002 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The majority of the suits alleged that we and co-defendants, WilTel, previously an owned subsidiary known as Williams Communications, and certain corporate officers, acted jointly and separately to inflate the stock price of both companies. WilTel was dismissed as a defendant as a result of its bankruptcy. These cases were consolidated and an order was issued requiring separate amended consolidated complaints by our equity holders and WilTel equity holders. The underwriter defendants have requested indemnification and defense from these cases. If we grant the requested indemnifications to the underwriters, any related settlement costs will not be covered by our insurance policies. We covered the cost of defending the underwriters. In 2002, the amended complaints of the WilTel securities holders and of our securities holders added numerous claims related to WPC. On February 9, 2007, the court gave its final approval to our settlement with our securities holders. We entered into indemnity agreements with certain of our insurers to ensure their timely payment related to this settlement. The carrying value of our estimated liability related to these agreements is immaterial because we believe the likelihood of any future performance is remote.
     Litigation with the WilTel equity holders continues but the trial has been stayed pending decisions on various motions for summary judgment. Any obligation of ours to the WilTel equity holders as a result of a settlement or as a result of trial will not likely be covered by insurance, as our insurance coverage has been fully utilized by the settlement described above. The extent of the obligation is presently unknown and cannot be estimated, but it is reasonably possible that our exposure materially exceeds amounts accrued for this matter.
     
TAPS Quality Bank
     One of our subsidiaries, Williams Alaska Petroleum, Inc. (WAPI), is actively engaged in administrative litigation being conducted jointly by the FERC and the Regulatory Commission of Alaska (RCA) concerning the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality Bank. Primary issues being litigated include the appropriate valuation of the naphtha, heavy distillate, vacuum gas oil and residual product cuts within the TAPS Quality Bank as well as the appropriate retroactive effects of the determinations. Due to the sale of WAPI's interests on March 31, 2004, no future Quality Bank liability will accrue but we are responsible for any liability that existed as of that date, including potential liability for any retroactive payments that might be awarded in these proceedings for the period prior to March 31, 2004. In the third quarter of 2004, the FERC and RCA presiding administrative law judges rendered their joint and individual initial decisions. The initial decisions set forth methodologies for determining the valuations of the product cuts under review and also approved the retroactive application of the approved methodologies for the heavy distillate and residual product cuts. In 2004, we accrued approximately $134 million based on our computation and assessment of ultimate ruling terms that were considered probable.
     The FERC and the RCA completed their reviews of the initial decisions and in 2005 issued substantially similar orders generally affirming the initial decisions. In June 2006, the FERC, after two sets of rehearing requests, entered its final order (FERC Final Order). During this administrative rehearing process all other appeals of the initial
 
Notes (Continued)
decisions were stayed including ExxonMobil's appeal to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals asserting that the FERC's reliance on the Highway Reauthorization Act as the basis for limiting the retroactive effect violates, among other things, the separation of powers under the U.S. Constitution by interfering with the FERC's independent decision-making role. ExxonMobil filed a similar appeal in the Alaska Superior Court. We also appealed the FERC's order to the extent of its ruling on the West Coast Heavy Distillate component.
     The Quality Bank Administrator issued his interpretations of the payment obligations under the FERC Final Order, and we and others filed exceptions to these instructions with the FERC. We expect the FERC's ruling on these payment instruction exceptions by the end of 2007. Once the FERC rules, the Administrator will invoice us for amounts due, and we will be required to pay the invoiced amounts, subject to the outcome of the appeals of the FERC Final Order. We estimate that our net obligation could be as much as $116 million. Amounts accrued in excess of this estimated obligation will be retained pending resolution of all appeals.
     
Redondo Beach taxes
     On February 5, 2005, WPC received a tax assessment letter, addressed to AES Redondo Beach, L.L.C. and WPC, from the city of Redondo Beach, California, in which the city asserted that approximately $33 million in back taxes and approximately $39 million in interest and penalties are owed related to natural gas used at the generating facility operated by AES Redondo Beach. Hearings were held in July 2005 and in September 2005 the tax administrator for the city issued a decision in which he found WPC jointly and severally liable with AES Redondo Beach for back taxes of approximately $36 million and interest and penalties of approximately $21 million. Both we and AES Redondo Beach filed notices of appeal that were heard at the city level. On December 13, 2006, the city hearing officer for the appeal of the pre-2005 amounts issued a final decision affirming our utility user tax liability and reversing AES Redondo Beach's liability because the officer ruled that AES Redondo Beach is an exempt public utility. We appealed this decision to the Los Angeles Superior Court, and the city also appealed with respect to AES Redondo Beach. On April 11, 2007, the court ruled that we must pay the city the disputed amount of approximately $57 million by May 1, 2007, in order to pursue our appeal. On April 30, 2007, we paid the city the disputed amount. Despite the city hearing officer's unfavorable decision and the payment to preserve our appeal rights, we do not believe a contingent loss is probable.
     The city's assessment of our liability for the periods from 1998 through September 2006 is approximately $69 million (inclusive of interest and penalties). We have protested all these assessments and requested hearings on them. We and AES Redondo Beach have also filed separate refund actions in Los Angeles Superior Court related to certain taxes paid since the initial 2005 notice of assessment. The refund actions are stayed pending the resolution of the appeals. We believe that under our tolling agreement related to the Redondo Beach generating facility, AES Redondo Beach is responsible for taxes of the nature asserted by the city; however, AES Redondo Beach has notified us that it does not agree.
     
Gulf Liquids litigation
     Gulf Liquids contracted with Gulsby Engineering Inc. (Gulsby) and Gulsby-Bay for the construction of certain gas processing plants in Louisiana. National American Insurance Company (NAICO) and American Home Assurance Company provided payment and performance bonds for the projects. Gulsby and Gulsby-Bay defaulted on the construction contracts. In the fall of 2001, the contractors, sureties, and Gulf Liquids filed multiple cases in Louisiana and Texas. In January 2002, NAICO added Gulf Liquids' co-venturer WPC to the suits as a third-party defendant. Gulf Liquids asserted claims against the contractors and sureties for, among other things, breach of contract requesting contractual and consequential damages from $40 million to $80 million, any of which is subject to a sharing arrangement with XL Insurance Company.
     At the conclusion of the consolidated trial of the asserted contract and tort claims, the jury returned its actual damages verdict against WPC and Gulf Liquids on July 31, 2006 and its related punitive damages verdict on August 1, 2006. The court is not expected to enter any judgment until the second or third quarter of 2007. Based on our interpretation of the jury verdicts, we have estimated exposure for actual damages of approximately $68 million plus potential interest of approximately $23 million, all of which have been accrued as of March 31, 2007. In addition, it is reasonably possible that any ultimate judgment may include additional amounts of approximately $199 million in excess of our accrual, which primarily represents our estimate of potential punitive damage exposure under Texas law.
 
Notes (Continued)
     
Wyoming severance taxes
     The Wyoming Department of Audit (DOA) audited the severance tax reporting for our subsidiary Williams Production RMT Company for the production years 2000 through 2002. In August 2006, the DOA assessed additional severance tax and interest for those periods of approximately $3 million. In addition, the DOA notified us of an increase in the taxable value of our interests for ad valorem tax purposes, which is estimated to result in additional taxes of approximately $2 million, including interest. We dispute the DOA's interpretation of the statutory obligation and have appealed this assessment to the Wyoming State Board of Equalization. If the DOA prevails in its interpretation of our obligation and applies the same basis of assessment to subsequent periods, it is reasonably possible that we could owe a total of approximately $21 million to $23 million in taxes and interest from January 1, 2003, through March 31, 2007.
     
Royalty litigation
     In September 2006, royalty interest owners in Garfield County, Colorado, filed a class action suit in Colorado state court alleging that we improperly calculated oil and gas royalty payments, failed to account for the proceeds that we received from the sale of gas and extracted products, improperly charged certain expenses, and failed to refund amounts withheld in excess of ad valorem tax obligations. The plaintiffs claim that the class might be in excess of 500 individuals and seek an accounting and damages. The parties have agreed to stay this action in order to participate in ongoing mediation.
Other Divestiture Indemnifications
     Pursuant to various purchase and sale agreements relating to divested businesses and assets, we have indemnified certain purchasers against liabilities that they may incur with respect to the businesses and assets acquired from us. The indemnities provided to the purchasers are customary in sale transactions and are contingent upon the purchasers incurring liabilities that are not otherwise recoverable from third parties. The indemnities generally relate to breach of warranties, tax, historic litigation, personal injury, environmental matters, right of way and other representations that we have provided.
     We sold a natural gas liquids pipeline system in 2002, and in July 2006, the purchaser of that system filed its complaint against us and our subsidiaries in state court in Houston, Texas. The purchaser alleges that we breached certain warranties under the purchase and sale agreement and seeks approximately $18.5 million in damages and our specific performance under certain guarantees. In 2006, we filed our answer to the purchaser's complaint denying all liability. We anticipate that the trial will occur in the first quarter of 2008, and our prior suit filed against the purchaser in Delaware state court is stayed pending resolution of the Texas case.
     At March 31, 2007, we do not expect any of the indemnities provided pursuant to the sales agreements to have a material impact on our future financial position. However, if a claim for indemnity is brought against us in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which the claim is made.
     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against us which are incidental to our operations.
Summary
     Litigation, arbitration, regulatory matters, and environmental matters are subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the ruling occurs. Management, including internal counsel, currently believes that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will not have a materially adverse effect upon our future financial position.
 
Notes (Continued)
Commitments
     WPC has entered into certain contracts giving it the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other services associated with electric generation facilities that are currently in operation throughout the continental United States. At March 31, 2007, WPC's estimated committed payments under these contracts range from approximately $318 million to $425 million annually through 2017 and decline over the remaining five years to $59 million in 2022. Total committed payments under these contracts over the next sixteen years are approximately $5.4 billion. These contracts are included in the pending sale of our power business to Bear Energy, LP. (See Note 3.)
Guarantees
     In connection with agreements executed prior to our acquisition of Transco to resolve take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transco entered into certain settlements with producers which may require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties that the producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. Transco, through its agent, Gas Marketing Services, continues to purchase gas under contracts which extend, in some cases, through the life of the associated gas reserves. Certain of these contracts contain royalty indemnification provisions that have no carrying value. Producers have received certain demands and may receive other demands, which could result in claims pursuant to royalty indemnification provisions. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the agreement between the producer and Transco. Consequently, the potential maximum future payments under such indemnification provisions cannot be determined. However, management believes that the probability of material payments is remote.
     In connection with the 1993 public offering of units in the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Royalty Trust), our Exploration & Production segment entered into a gas purchase contract for the purchase of natural gas in which the Royalty Trust holds a net profits interest. Under this agreement, we guarantee a minimum purchase price that the Royalty Trust will realize in the calculation of its net profits interest. We have an annual option to discontinue this minimum purchase price guarantee and pay solely based on an index price. The maximum potential future exposure associated with this guarantee is not determinable because it is dependent upon natural gas prices and production volumes. No amounts have been accrued for this contingent obligation as the index price continues to substantially exceed the minimum purchase price.
     We are required by certain foreign lenders to ensure that the interest rates received by them under various loan agreements are not reduced by taxes by providing for the reimbursement of any domestic taxes required to be paid by the foreign lender. The maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnifications is based on the related borrowings. These indemnifications generally continue indefinitely unless limited by the underlying tax regulations and have no carrying value. We have never been called upon to perform under these indemnifications.
     We have guaranteed commercial letters of credit totaling $20 million on behalf of a certain entity in which we have an equity ownership interest. These expire by January 2008 and have no carrying value.
     We have provided guarantees on behalf of certain entities in which we have an equity ownership interest. These generally guarantee operating performance measures and the maximum potential future exposure cannot be determined. There are no expiration dates associated with these guarantees. No amounts have been accrued at March 31, 2007.
     We have provided guarantees in the event of nonpayment by our previously owned communications subsidiary, WilTel, on certain lease performance obligations that extend through 2042. The maximum potential exposure is approximately $45 million at March 31, 2007. Our exposure declines systematically throughout the remaining term of WilTel's obligations. The carrying value of these guarantees is approximately $41 million at March 31, 2007.
     Former managing directors of Gulf Liquids are involved in litigation related to the construction of gas processing plants. Gulf Liquids has indemnity obligations to the former managing directors for legal fees and potential losses that may result from this litigation. Claims against these former managing directors have been settled and dismissed after payments on their behalf by directors and officers insurers. Some unresolved issues remain between us and these insurers, but no amounts have been accrued for any potential liability.
 
Notes (Continued)
     We have guaranteed the performance of a former subsidiary of our wholly owned subsidiary MAPCO Inc., under a coal supply contract. This guarantee was granted by MAPCO Inc. upon the sale of its former subsidiary to a third-party in 1996. The guaranteed contract provides for an annual supply of a minimum of 2.25 million tons of coal. Our potential exposure is dependent on the difference between current market prices of coal and the pricing terms of the contract, both of which are variable, and the remaining term of the contract. Given the variability of the terms, the maximum future potential payments cannot be determined. We believe that our likelihood of performance under this guarantee is remote. In the event we are required to perform, we are fully indemnified by the purchaser of MAPCO Inc.'s former subsidiary. This guarantee expires in December 2010 and has no carrying value.
Note 10. Comprehensive Income
 
     is as follows:
Comprehensive income
     represents changes in the fair value of certain derivative contracts that have been designated as cash flow hedges. The net unrealized gains at March 31, 2007, include net unrealized gains on forward natural gas purchases and sales of approximately $33 million, partially offset by net unrealized losses on forward power purchases and sales of approximately $23 million. The net unrealized gains at March 31, 2006, include net unrealized gains on forward natural gas purchases and sales of approximately $97 million and net unrealized gains on forward power purchases and sales of approximately $92 million.
Net unrealized gains on derivative instruments
Note 11. Segment Disclosures
 
     On May 21, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP. This pending sale has impacted our segment presentation. See Notes 2 and 3 for further discussion.
     Our reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. The segments are managed separately because each segment requires different technology, marketing strategies and industry knowledge. Our master limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P., is consolidated within our Midstream segment. (See Note 2.) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and our Milagro natural gas-fired electric generating plant. (See Note 3.)
Performance Measurement
     We currently evaluate performance based upon from operations, which includes from external and internal customers, , , and including impairments related to investments accounted for under the equity method. Intersegment sales are generally accounted for at current market prices as if the sales were to unaffiliated third parties.
segment profit (loss)
segment revenues
segment costs and expenses
depreciation, depletion and amortization
equity earnings (losses)
income (loss) from investments
 
Notes (Continued)
     The majority of energy commodity hedging by certain of our business units was historically done through intercompany derivatives with our Gas Marketing Services segment which, in turn, entered into offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Gas Marketing Services bore the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. However, beginning in the first quarter of 2007, hedges related to Exploration & Production may be entered into directly between Exploration & Production and third parties under its new credit agreement. (See Note 8.)
     The Gas Marketing Services segment includes the continued marketing and risk management operations that support our natural gas businesses. The operations include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production and procuring fuel and shrink gas for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing Services manages various natural gas-related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges.
     External revenues of our Exploration & Production segment include third-party oil and gas sales, which are more than offset by transportation expenses and royalties due third parties on intersegment sales.
     The following table reflects the reconciliation of and to and as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
segment revenues
segment profit (loss)
revenues
operating income
 
Notes (Continued)
     The following table reflects by reporting segment.
total assets
 
Note 12. Recent Accounting Standards
 
     In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). This Statement establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and is generally applied prospectively. We will assess the impact of SFAS No. 157 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 establishes a fair value option permitting entities to elect the option to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on specified election dates. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be reported in earnings. The fair value option may be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis, with a few exceptions, is irrevocable and is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007 and should not be applied retrospectively to fiscal years beginning prior to the effective date. On the adoption date, an entity may elect the fair value option for eligible items existing at that date and the adjustment for the initial remeasurement of those items to fair value should be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We continue to assess whether to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 159 to eligible financial instruments in place on the adoption date and the related impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     On March 29, 2007, the FERC issued "Commission Accounting and Reporting Guidance to Recognize the Funded Status of Defined Benefit Postretirement Plans." The guidance is being provided to all jurisdictional entities to ensure proper and consistent implementation of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" for FERC financial reporting purposes beginning with the 2007 FERC Form 2 to be filed in 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of the FERC guidance on our Gas Pipeline segment and Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In April 2007, the FASB issued a Staff Position (FSP) on a previously issued FIN, FSP FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39." FSP FIN 39-1 amends FIN 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts (as amended)" by addressing offsetting fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim or obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments that have been offset pursuant to a master netting arrangement. The FSP requires disclosure of the accounting policy related to offsetting fair value amounts as well as disclosure of amounts recognized for the right to reclaim or obligation to return cash collateral. This FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early application permitted, and is applied retrospectively as a change in accounting principle for all financial statements presented. We will assess the impact of FSP FIN 39-1 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Company Outlook
     Our plan for 2007 is focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives of this plan include:
     Potential risks and/or obstacles that could prevent us from achieving these objectives include:
We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining our desired level of at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities.
     Our for the three months ended March 31, 2007, increased $37.7 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2006. This result is reflective of:
income from continuing operations
     See additional discussion in Results of Operations
     Our increased $135.1 million primarily due to a decrease in net cash outflows from See additional discussion in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition.
net cash provided by operating activities
margin deposits and customer margin deposits payable.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Recent Events
     In April 2007, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of 10 cents per share, which reflects an increase of 11 percent compared to the 9 cents per share that we paid in each of the four prior quarters and marks the fourth increase in our dividend since late 2004.
     On March 30, 2007, the FERC approved the stipulation and settlement agreement with respect to the pending rate case for Northwest Pipeline. The settlement establishes an increase in general system firm transportation rates on Northwest Pipeline's system from $0.30760 to $0.40984 per Dth (dekatherm), effective January 1, 2007.
General
     Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this document [Exhibit 99.3] and our 2006 Annual Report, as revised [Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2].
Sale of Power Business
     On May 21, 2007, we announced our intent to sell substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of the Bear Stearns Company, Inc. for $512 million. This pending sale reduces the risk and complexity of our overall business model and allows our ongoing efforts to focus our investment capital and growth efforts on our core natural gas businesses. The sale is expected to close in 2007.
     The pending sale of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, includes tolling contracts, full requirements contracts, tolling resales, heat rate options, related hedges and other related assets including certain property and software. Our natural gas-fired electric generating plant located in Hazleton, Pennsylvania (Hazleton), is currently being marketed for sale. These operations are part of our previously reported Power segment and are now reflected in our results of operations as discontinued operations. (See Notes 2 and 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     Other continuing components of our former Power segment are now being reported as follows:
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Results of Operations
Consolidated Overview
     The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2006. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion.
 
     
Three months ended March 31, 2007 vs. three months ended March 31, 2006
     The decrease in is primarily due to reduced natural gas sales prices at Gas Marketing Services. Additionally, the effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas contracts not designated as cash flow hedges had an unfavorable impact on revenues. Partially offsetting these decreases are increased revenues at Exploration & Production due to both increased production volumes and net average realized prices. Net average realized prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge positions, less gathering and transportation expenses.
revenues
     The decrease in is largely due to reduced natural gas purchase prices at Gas Marketing Services. Partially offsetting these decreases are increased depreciation, depletion and amortization and lease operating expense at Exploration & Production.
costs and operating expenses
     The increase in is primarily due to the absence of a 2006 gain on sale of certain receivables at Gas Marketing Services of $23.7 million and higher costs due to increased staffing in support of drilling and operational activity at Exploration & Production.
selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses
     within in 2007 includes:
Other income  net
operating income
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     within in 2006 includes:
Other income  net
operating income
     The increase in is attributable to various factors, including higher information technology, consulting and insurance costs.
general corporate expenses
     increased primarily due to changes in our debt portfolio, most significantly the issuance of new debt in 2006 by Williams Partners L.P., our consolidated master limited partnership.
Interest accrued  net
     increased primarily due to increased interest income associated with larger cash and cash equivalent balances combined with higher rates of return, partially offset by the absence of an approximate $7 million gain on sale of an international investment in 2006.
Investing income
     in first quarter 2006 includes $25.8 million in premiums and $1.2 million in fees related to the January 2006 debt conversion. (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Early debt retirement costs
     increased primarily due to the growth in the minority interest holdings of Williams Partners L.P.
Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries
     was unfavorable primarily due to increased pre-tax income. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2007, is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of state income taxes and net foreign operations. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2006, is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of state income taxes.
Provision for income taxes
     includes results related to our discontinued power business. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Loss from discontinued operations
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Results of Operations  Segments
Exploration & Production
Overview of Three Months Ended March 31, 2007
     During the first three months of 2007, we continued our strategy of a rapid execution of our development drilling program in our growth basins. Accordingly, we:
     The benefits of higher production volumes were partially offset by increased operating costs. The increase in operating costs was primarily due to higher well service and industry costs and increased production volumes.
     
Significant events
     In February 2007, we entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Margin requirements, if any, under this new facility are dependent on the level of hedging and on natural gas reserves value. (See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     We may also execute hedges with the Gas Marketing Services segment which, in turn, executes offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. In this situation, Gas Marketing Services, generally, bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. Hedging decisions primarily are made considering our overall commodity risk exposure and are not executed independently by Exploration & Production.
     During the first three months of 2007, we entered into various derivative collar agreements at the basin level which, in the aggregate, hedge an additional 80 MMcfe per day for production in 2008 and 90 MMcfe per day for production in 2009.
Outlook for the Remainder of 2007
     Our expectations for the remainder of the year include:
     Approximately 172 MMcfe per day of our forecasted 2007 daily production is hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed-price contracts at prices that average $3.89 per Mcfe at a basin level. In addition, we have collar agreements for each month remaining in 2007 as follows:
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     Risks to achieving our expectations include weather conditions at certain of our locations, obtaining permits as planned for drilling, and market price movements.
Period-Over-Period Results
Three months ended March 31, 2007 vs. three months ended March 31, 2006
     Total increased $126.7 million, or 36 percent, primarily due to the following:
segment revenues
     To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative forward sales contracts that fix the sales price relating to a portion of our future production. Approximately 20 percent of domestic production in the first quarter of 2007 was hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed-price contracts at a weighted-average price of $3.94 per Mcfe at a basin level compared to 44 percent hedged at a weighted-average price of $3.80 per Mcfe for the same period in 2006. Also in the first quarter of 2007, approximately 32 percent of domestic production was hedged in the collar agreements previously discussed in the Outlook section compared to 17 percent hedged in various collar agreements in the first quarter of 2006.
     Total increased $87 million, primarily due to the following:
segment costs and expenses
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     First quarter 2006 do not include approximately $6 million in lease operating expenses related to that period. The amount was recorded in the second quarter of 2006.
segment costs and expenses
     The $40.5 million increase in is primarily due to the approximately 28 percent increase in production volumes sold and higher net realized average prices. Partially offsetting this increase are higher as previously discussed.
segment profit
segment costs and expenses
Gas Pipeline
Overview of Three Months Ended March 31, 2007
     
Status of rate cases
     During 2006, Northwest Pipeline and Transco each filed general rate cases with the FERC for increases in rates due to higher costs in recent years. The new rates are effective, subject to refund, on January 1, 2007, for Northwest Pipeline and on March 1, 2007, for Transco. We expect the new rates to result in significantly higher revenues.
     On March 30, 2007, the FERC approved the stipulation and settlement agreement with respect to the pending rate case for Northwest Pipeline. The settlement establishes an increase in general system firm transportation rates on Northwest Pipeline's system from $0.30760 to $0.40984 per Dth (dekatherm), effective January 1, 2007.
Outlook for the Remainder of 2007
     
Parachute Lateral project
     In August 2006, we received FERC approval to construct a 37.6-mile expansion that will provide additional natural gas transportation capacity in northwest Colorado. The planned expansion will increase capacity by 450 Mdt/d through the 30-inch diameter line and is estimated to cost approximately $86 million. The expansion is expected to be in service in May 2007.
     
Leidy to Long Island expansion project
     In May 2006, we received FERC approval to expand Transco's natural gas pipeline in the northeast United States. The estimated cost of the project is approximately $141 million. The expansion will provide 100 Mdt/d of incremental firm capacity and is expected to be in service by November 2007.
     
Potomac expansion project
     In April 2007, we received FERC approval to expand Transco's existing facilities in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States by constructing 16.4 miles of 42-inch pipeline. The project will provide 165 Mdt/d of incremental firm capacity. The estimated cost of the project is approximately $74 million, with an anticipated in-service date of November 2007.
Period-Over-Period Results
     
Three months ended March 31, 2007 vs. three months ended March 31, 2006
     increased $36.8 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to a $30 million increase in transportation revenue and a $3 million increase in storage revenue resulting primarily from new rates effective in the first quarter of 2007. In addition, revenues increased $3 million due to exchange imbalance settlements (offset in ).
Revenues
costs and operating expenses
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
      increased $18 million, or 10 percent, due primarily to:
Costs and operating expenses
     increased $4 million, or 12 percent, due primarily to a $5 million increase in property insurance expenses resulting from increased premiums on offshore facilities and a $2 million increase in information systems support costs. Partially offsetting these increases is a $5 million decrease in expense related to an adjustment to correct rent expense from prior periods.
SG&A expenses
     The $15 million, or 11 percent, increase in is due primarily to $36.8 million higher revenues as previously discussed, partially offset by increases in and as previously discussed.
segment profit
costs and operating expenses
SG&A expenses
Midstream Gas & Liquids
Overview of Three Months Ended March 31, 2007
     Midstream's ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large-scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per-unit costs. Our business is focused on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers.
Significant events during the first three months of 2007 include the following:
     
Continued favorable commodity price margins
     The actual realized natural gas liquid (NGL) per unit margins at our processing plants exceeded Midstream's rolling five-year average for the first three months of 2007. The geographic diversification of Midstream assets contributed significantly to our actual realized unit margins resulting in margins generally greater than that of the industry benchmarks for gas processed in the Henry Hub area and fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu. The largest impact was realized at our western United States gas processing plants, which benefited from lower regional market natural gas prices. During 2006 and continuing through the first quarter of 2007, NGL production rebounded from levels experienced in fourth-quarter 2005 in response to improved gas processing spreads.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     
Expansion efforts in growth areas
     Consistent with our strategy, we continued to expand our midstream operations where we have large-scale assets in growth basins.
     During the first quarter of 2007, we completed construction at our existing gas processing complex located near Opal, Wyoming, to add a fifth cryogenic gas processing train capable of processing up to 350 MMcf/d, bringing total Opal capacity to approximately 1,450 MMcf/d. This plant expansion was operational for approximately half of the quarter. We also have several expansion projects ongoing in the West region to lower field pressures and increase production volumes for our customers who continue robust drilling activities in the region.
     In the first quarter of 2007, we began pre-construction activities on the proposed Perdido Norte project which includes oil and gas lines that would expand the scale of our existing infrastructure in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. Additionally, we intend to expand our Markham gas processing facility to adequately serve this new gas production. The project is estimated to cost approximately $480 million and be in service in the third quarter of 2009.
     In March 2007, we announced plans to construct and operate a 450 MMcf/d natural gas processing plant in western Colorado's Piceance basin, where Exploration & Production has its most significant volume of natural gas production, reserves and development activity. Exploration & Production's existing Piceance basin processing plants are primarily designed to condition the natural gas to meet quality specifications for pipeline transmission, not to maximize the extraction of NGLs. We expect the Willow Creek facility will recover an additional 20,000 barrels per day of NGLs at startup, which is expected to be in the third quarter of 2009.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Outlook for the Remainder of 2007
     The following factors could impact our business in the remaining three quarters of 2007 and beyond.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Period-Over-Period Results
     In order to provide additional clarity, our management's discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as . These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion.
indirect general and administrative expense
     
Three months ended March 31, 2007 vs. three months ended March 31, 2006
     The $16 million increase in is largely due to a $50 million increase in the marketing of NGLs and olefins.
segment revenues
This increase was partially offset by:
      increased $10 million primarily as a result of:
Segment costs and expenses
These increases were partially offset by:
     The $2.8 million increase in Midstream's reflects higher NGL margins and higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs and olefins, partially offset by higher operating expenses. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstream's various operations is presented as follows.
segment profit
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     
Domestic gathering & processing
     The is unchanged and includes a $19 million increase in the West region and a $19 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region.
domestic gathering and processing segment profit
     The $19 million increase in our West region's primarily results from higher product margins and higher gathering and processing fee based revenues, partially offset by higher operating expenses and lower gains on the sale of assets. The significant components of this increase include the following:
segment profit
     The $19 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region's is primarily a result of lower volumes from our deepwater facilities, lower NGL margins and higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase include the following:
segment profit
     
Venezuela
     for our Venezuela assets decreased $8.6 million. The decrease is primarily due to the absence of a $9 million gain from the settlement of a contract dispute in 2006, partially offset by $7 million of currency exchange gains in 2007. In addition, revenues and equity earnings are lower and operating expenses are slightly higher.
Segment profit
     
Other
     The $17.4 million increase in of our other operations is due primarily to $5 million in higher margins related to the marketing of olefins, $8 million in higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs due to more favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2007 as compared to 2006, an $8 million reversal of a maintenance accrual (see below), partially offset by the absence of a $4 million favorable transportation settlement in 2006.
segment profit
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. AUG AIR-1, As a result, we recognized as other income an $8 million reversal of an accrual for
Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
major maintenance on our Geismar ethane cracker. We did not apply the FSP retrospectively because the impact to our first quarter 2007 and estimated full year 2007 earnings, as well as the impact to prior periods is not material. We have adopted the deferral method for accounting for these costs going forward.
     
Indirect general and administrative expense
     The $6 million increase in indirect general and administrative expense is due primarily to higher employee, consulting, and legal expenses.
Gas Marketing Services
     Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration & Production and procuring fuel and shrink gas for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas-related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges, which were part of our former Power segment, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions.
Overview of Three Months Ended March 31, 2007
     Gas Marketing's operating results for the first three months of 2007 reflect unrealized mark-to-market losses primarily caused by an increase in forward natural gas prices against a net short derivative legacy position. Most of these derivative positions are economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Outlook for the Remainder of 2007
     For the remainder of 2007, Gas Marketing intends to focus on providing services that support our natural gas businesses. Certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions from our former Power segment are included in the Gas Marketing segment. We intend to manage or liquidate a substantial portion of these legacy contracts in order to reduce risk and volatility.
     Until such legacy positions are liquidated, Gas Marketing's earnings may continue to reflect mark-to-market volatility from commodity-based derivatives that represent economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Period-Over-Period Results
     
Three months ended March 31, 2007 vs. three months ended March 31, 2006
     represent (1) revenue from the sale of natural gas or completion of energy-related services and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. decreased $123.6 million primarily due to a 16 percent decrease in average natural gas sales prices, partially offset by an 11 percent increase in natural gas sales volumes.
Realized revenues
Realized revenues
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     primarily represent changes in the fair values of certain legacy derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The effect of changes in forward prices and portfolio position on legacy natural gas derivative contracts primarily caused the $12.1 million unfavorable change in An increase in forward natural gas prices in 2007 caused losses on legacy net forward gas fixed-price sales contracts. A decrease in forward natural gas prices in 2006 caused lesser losses on legacy net forward gas fixed-price purchase contracts.
Net forward unrealized mark-to-market losses
net forward unrealized mark-to-market losses.
     The $153.4 million decrease in Gas Marketing's was primarily due to a 16 percent decrease in average natural gas purchase prices.
costs and operating expenses
     The unfavorable change in Gas Marketing's in the first quarter of 2007 is primarily due to the absence of a $23.7 million gain from the sale of certain receivables to a third party in first-quarter 2006.
selling, general and administrative (income) expense
     The effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts and the unfavorable change in , partially offset by an improvement in accrual gross margin (defined as less ), primarily caused the $6.4 million increase in
SG&A (income) expense
realized revenues
costs and operating expenses
segment loss.
Other
Period-Over-Period Results
     As previously discussed, our natural gas-fired electric generating plant near Bloomfield, New Mexico (Milagro facility), is now reported within the Other segment. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The results of our Other segment are relatively comparable to the prior year.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Energy Trading Activities
Fair Value of Trading and Nontrading Derivatives
     The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of March 31, 2007. We have presented the fair value of assets and liabilities by the period in which they would be realized under their contractual terms and not as a result of a sale. We have reported the fair value of a portion of these derivatives in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
     As the table above illustrates, we are not materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a substantial portfolio of nontrading derivative contracts. Nontrading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could possibly hedge forecasted transactions on an economic basis. We have designated certain of these contracts as cash flow hedges of Exploration & Production's forecasted sales of natural gas production and certain forecasted purchases of gas and purchases and sales of power related to our former Power segment's long-term structured contracts and owned generation under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133). Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, SFAS 133 cash flow hedges had a net asset value of $225 million as of March 31, 2007, which includes the existing fair value of the derivatives at the time of their designation as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for nontrading purposes as of March 31, 2007, for Gas Marketing Services, Exploration & Production, Midstream, Other, and nontrading derivatives reported in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations.
Counterparty Credit Considerations
     We include an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance in our estimate of fair value for all contracts. Such assessment considers (1) the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, (2) the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, (3) the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to and (4) the terms of each individual contract.
     Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if necessary. At March 31, 2007, we held collateral support, including letters of credit, of $613 million.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts, a portion of which is included in assets of discontinued operations as of March 31, 2007 (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), is summarized below.
     We assess our credit exposure on a net basis to reflect master netting agreements in place with certain counterparties. We offset our credit exposure to each counterparty with amounts we owe the counterparty under derivative contracts. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of March 31, 2007, is summarized below.
 
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
Outlook
     We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet future requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances requiring the use of funds. For the remainder of 2007, we expect to maintain liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. We maintain adequate liquidity to manage margin requirements related to significant movements in commodity prices, unplanned capital spending needs, near term scheduled debt payments, and litigation and other settlements. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements through cash flow from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $2 billion and $2.3 billion in 2007, proceeds from debt issuances and sales of units of Williams Partners L.P., as well as cash and cash equivalents on hand as needed.
     We entered 2007 positioned for growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas business. Examples of this planned growth include:
     We estimate capital and investment expenditures will total approximately $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion in 2007, with approximately $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion to be incurred over the remainder of the year. As a result of increasing our development drilling program, $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion of the total estimated 2007 capital expenditures is related to Exploration & Production. Also within the total estimated expenditures for 2007 is approximately $215 million to $270 million for compliance and maintenance-related projects at Gas Pipeline, including Clean Air Act compliance.
     Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include:
     On April 4, 2007, Northwest Pipeline retired $175 million of 8.125 percent senior notes due 2010. Northwest Pipeline paid premiums of approximately $7.1 million in conjunction with the early debt retirement.
     On April 5, 2007, Northwest Pipeline issued $185 million aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. (See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
Overview
     In February 2007, Exploration & Production entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Under the credit agreement, Exploration & Production is not required to post collateral as long as the value of its domestic natural gas reserves, as determined under the provisions of the agreement, exceeds by a specified amount certain of its obligations including any outstanding debt and the aggregate out-of-the-money positions on hedges entered into under the credit agreement. Exploration & Production is subject to additional covenants under the credit agreement including restrictions on hedge limits, the creation of liens, the incurrence of debt, the sale of assets and properties, and making certain payments, such as dividends, under certain circumstances.
     
Credit ratings
     On March 19, 2007, Standard & Poor's raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a BB to a BB with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Standard & Poor's, a rating of "BBB" or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below "BBB" indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A "BB" rating indicates that Standard & Poor's believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard & Poor's may modify it's ratings with a "+" or a "" sign to show the obligor's relative standing within a major rating category.
     Moody's Investors Service rates our senior unsecured debt at a Ba2 with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Moody's, a rating of "Baa" or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below "Baa" is considered to have speculative elements. A "Ba" rating indicates an obligation that is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. The "1", "2" and "3" modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A "1" indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, "2" indicates a mid-range ranking, and "3" ranking at the lower end of the category.
     Fitch Ratings rates our senior unsecured debt at a BB+ with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Fitch, a rating of "BBB" or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below "BBB" is considered speculative grade. A "BB" rating from Fitch indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. Fitch may add a "+" or a "" sign to show the obligor's relative standing within a major rating category.
     
Liquidity
     Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. While most of our sources are available to us at the parent level, others are available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity and debt issuances from Williams Partners L.P. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions.
 
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)
     In addition to the above, Northwest Pipeline and Transco have shelf registration statements available for the issuance of up to $350 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities. If the credit rating of Northwest Pipeline or Transco is below investment grade for all credit rating agencies, they can only use their shelf registration statements to issue debt if such debt is guaranteed by us.
     Williams Partners L.P. has a shelf registration statement available for the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of debt and limited partnership unit securities.
     In addition, at the parent-company level, we have a shelf registration statement that allows us to issue publicly registered debt and equity securities as needed.
     In February 2007, Exploration & Production entered into a five-year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks which serves to reduce our usage of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. (See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
Sources (Uses) of Cash
     
Operating activities
     Our for the three months ended March 31, 2007 increased from the same period in 2006. The increase in is largely due to a change in working capital, which is primarily due to a decrease in net cash outflows from due mostly to changes in natural gas prices and our marginable positions.
net cash provided by operating activities
net cash provided by operating activities
margin deposits and customer margin deposits payable
     
Financing activities
     During the first quarter of 2006, we paid $25.8 million in premiums for early debt retirement costs.
     During the first quarter of 2007, we paid a quarterly dividend of 9 cents per common share, totaling $54.1 million, compared to a quarterly dividend of 7.5 cents per common share, totaling $44.6 million, for the first quarter of 2006.
     
Investing activities
     During the first three months of 2007, capital expenditures totaled $509.1 million and were primarily related to Exploration & Production's increased drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin.
     During the first three months of 2007, we purchased $173.2 million and received $44.6 million from the sale of auction rate securities. These are utilized as a component of our overall cash management program.
     financing
Off-balance sheet
arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments
     We have provided a guarantee for obligations of Williams Partners L.P. under the $1.5 billion unsecured revolving and letter of credit facility.
     We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs.
 
Interest Rate Risk
     Our interest rate risk exposure is primarily associated with our debt portfolio and has not materially changed during the first three months of 2007. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commodity Price Risk
     We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas, electricity and natural gas liquids, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations, including correlations between natural gas and power prices. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy-related assets, our long-term energy-related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy-related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy-commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value-at-risk methodology to estimate the potential one-day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios.
     Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value-at-risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one-day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value-at-risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one-day holding period to execute. While a one-day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints.
     We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS 133 and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk.
Trading
     Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price-risk exposure. A portion of these derivative contracts are included in our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was approximately $2 million at March 31, 2007, and $1 million at December 31, 2006.
Nontrading
     Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities:
 
     Our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations also include derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the commodity price risk exposure from natural gas purchases and electricity purchases and sales.
     The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $13 million at March 31, 2007, and $12 million at December 31, 2006. A portion of these derivative contracts are included in our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. Under our agreement to sell our power business to Bear Energy, LP, for $512 million, this amount will be reduced by expected net portfolio cash flows from an April 1, 2007, valuation date through the transaction closing date. Mark-to-market gains and losses between this valuation date and the close of the transaction will not impact the economic value of the sale, although they may change the recorded gain or loss on the sale as derivative assets and liabilities included in the sale continue to be valued at fair value.
     Certain of the other derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. Though these contracts are included in our value-at-risk calculation, any changes in the fair value of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings.


