FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20080318092148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 16, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Company") increased the size of the Board to thirteen and elected Mr. Joseph R. Cleveland to the Companys Board of Directors as a Class I director, to serve until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Board also appointed Mr. Cleveland to serve on the Audit Committee and the Finance Committee. Mr. Cleveland was identified by Mr. Michael P. Johnson, Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. Cleveland, 63, is the former chief information officer for Lockheed Martin Corporation and president of Lockheed Martin Enterprise Information Systems. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Cleveland and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director of the Company. Mr. Cleveland has no prior relationships or other transactions with the Company or its management. A copy of the press release publicly announcing Mr. Clevelan d's election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
a) None b) None c) None d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Copy of press release dated March 17, 2008, publicly reporting the election of Mr. Joseph R. Cleveland to the Companys Board as discussed herein.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

TULSA, Okla.  Joseph R. Cleveland has been elected to the Williams (NYSE:WMB) board of directors.  Cleveland, 63, is the former chief information officer for Lockheed Martin Corporation and president of Lockheed Martin Enterprise Information Systems.
In his former position, Cleveland was responsible for defining and ensuring the information technology needs of the entire $41.9 billion Lockheed Martin Corporation.  He was responsible for the consolidation and modernization of the IT infrastructure following the largest merger in the Aerospace and Defense industry  the 1995 merger of Lockheed and Martin Marietta.
He also was a key leader in Lockheed Martin's culture, as he led the team that created the company's proprietary measurement system that provides a quantitative assessment of the corporation's progress toward the development of an inclusive work place.
"We are very pleased to be adding Joseph to our board," said Steve Malcolm, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  "His proven leadership and experience will be a tremendous asset for Williams and our shareholders."
Cleveland has earned numerous industry recognitions for his accomplishments, including being listed as one of the Top 100 Most Influential People in IT by magazine. The Information Technology Senior Management Forum presented him with the 2006 Diamond Leadership award and his mentoring practices and diversity initiatives were profiled in in 2005.
eWeek
The Wall Street Journal
Cleveland's primary residence is in Orlando, Fla. He previously divided his time between Lockheed Martin headquarters in Bethesda, Md., and Enterprise Information Systems operations in Orlando.  He has a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Tennessee State University and has completed extensive technical, business and leadership development training throughout his career.
He becomes the thirteenth member of Williams' current board of directors. A listing of all Williams' directors is available at .
www.williams.com
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


