FILE:WMB/WMB-8K-20080910154912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Williams Companies, Inc. ("Williams") announced that it has completed the purchase of certain interests in the Barnett Shale for approximately $147 million from privately held Aspect Abundant Shale LP and other parties. A copy of the press release announcing that Williams has completed the purchase of certain interests in the Barnett Shale is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished is not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
a) None b) None c) None d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated September 9, 2008 announcing that Williams has completed the purchase of certain interests in the Barnett Shale.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release (Williams Logo)
NYSE: WMB
Sept. 9, 2008
Date:
TULSA, Okla.  Williams (NYSE: WMB) today announced that it has completed the purchase of certain interests in the Barnett Shale for approximately $147 million from privately held Aspect Abundant Shale LP and other parties.
Williams previously announced it had agreed to purchase certain interests in the Barnett Shale for approximately $166 million cash. The change in the purchase price from the previous announcement to the closing is because the parties are in the process of finalizing title work on a small portion of the acquisition package.
The $166 million acquisition package represents an estimated 175 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) of proved, probable and possible reserves on approximately 10,000 net acres and 41 producing wells with daily net production of approximately 9 million cubic feet equivalent (MMcfe). The properties are located primarily in Tarrant, Johnson and Hood counties.
Williams has four drilling rigs operating in the Barnett Shale. The company plans to add two more rigs in north Texas over the next six months to begin developing the newly acquired interests.
Prior to the completion of this purchase, Williams produced an average of 40 MMcfe per day on a net basis in the Barnett Shale during the second-quarter of 2008.
Williams, through its subsidiaries, finds, produces, gathers, processes and transports natural gas.  Williams' operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Eastern Seaboard. More information is available at . Go to to join our e-mail list.
About Williams (NYSE: WMB)
http://www.williams.com
http://www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=630&to=ea&s=0
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company's annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


